aspiration --  an ambition or a hope to achieve something
Foment --  start a fight ,  start with f
Insider --  people inside something which know  the internal things
Grim -- stern, serious, start with Gr
Warmonger -- people of touting war 
Chronically --  in a persistent or recurring way .
Unfunded -- be lack of fund
Mindset -- notion , a set of ways of thinking in mind.
Disinformation  -- false information 
Baltics -- a sea surrounding  by Sweden , Finland ,  Germany, Russia 
Outright -- altogether, completely .
Warfare -- war, 
Spook -- frighten by a ghost 
Readiness -- noun of ready
Contingency -- event happen not  often .
Trio -- three man/sing/thing
Societal -- adjectives  of society 
Upending -- erecting  , start with up 
Nonetheless -- equal to nevertheless
Outcry --  decry, strong objection, Backlash
Booklet -- handbook 
Lithuania -- a country of euro which has a very good basketball team
Incline -- oppose to decline, willing
Civic -- adjective. Of civil 
Engrain --  entrench 
Intensive -- concentrated, start with int
Clamour -- confused noise , like raucous
Patrons -- donator , start with pa
Step up -- speed up for outpace or  outstrip
Gubernatorial  -- adjectives  of governor of a state of US
Discontent -- not content.
Gridlock -- a big traffic jam 
Tenure --  the holding of an office
Rancor -- bitterness , especially when long-standing 
Vitriolic  -- very sharp and harsh while debating
Demonize -- make someone as demon
Dysfunction -- abnormality , not balanced
Bullish -- very confident about rising of the price
Surpass -- exceed ,  be greater than,
Allure -- attraction of lure .
Stalemate -- a state of stall
Rank-and-file -- normal member 
Irrespective -- regardless of 
Recluse -- a people escaping from society to live alone
Peremptory -- acting as a dictator, any argument or question about his talking is not allow 
Titular -- symbolic ,  start with Tit
Grapple -- struggle without weapon
Communal -- Adjectives of Community 
Ethnic -- national
Herder -- people look after a herd for living
Egregious -- very bad, start with Eg
Desultory -- lacking of plan, casual.
Dissent -- oppose to consent
Detain -- take into custody 
Simultaneous -- in the same time , parallel 
Hinge -- a movable joint between door and door frame , it can connect two parts and also make it   can be opened or closed.
Standoff -- stalemate , standstill
Amphibious -- can be used in water and land
Succumbed -- give in 
Hegemon -- a supremę leader
Debacle -- severe defeat 
Poise -- to be balanced
Grinder -- a machine that can turn food or things into powder.
Albeit -- although 
Chummy -- friendly 
Prop up -- support 
Berate -- scold, start with Be
Erasure -- noun of erase
Lax --  not meticulous, negligent  
Adage -- motto, start with Ad
Liberal -- willing to accept , start with Lib
Forfeit -- lose , or be deprived of 
Vaunt -- boast, start with va
Conceivable -- capable of being imagined , start with conc
Mayhem -- disorder, chaos , start with may
Dismantle -- take sth into pieces 
Hobble -- walk with a broken leg
Ration -- a limit quota for each people in wartime
Arsenal -- store of weapons
Teeter -- move unsteadily	
Espouse -- support, start with es
Decisively -- adjective  for very quick to do decision 


