Gloomy -- Sad , worry ,  begin with Letter Gl
Relish -- enjoy, begin with letter re
Accordion --  in instrument of music  ,  a piano that can be held by hand
Imaginary -- virtual , start with Im
Plead -- beg , start with Pl
Repudiate -- Deny , start with rep
Soundbite -- a small piece of sound track.
Swamp --  an area of low-lying.
Boast -- praise one's self
Crooked --  thug , start with Cro
Parody -- simulate, imitate, start with Par
Incorrigible -- do not change after many persuasions
Lampoon -- sarcasm
Raucous --making or constituting  disturbing loud noise. 
Be Dozing off  -- fell into sleep in an event.
Hyperbole -- exaggerate  , start with hyper
Preach -- speech by godfather 
Jar -- stun, with J
Triumphalism  -- a recipe of success
Futile -- verb of futility
windfall -- Blow ?
stifle -- strangle, start with sti, for economics
Malaise -- upset, start with Ma
Stagnate -- cease to move or flew, become stagnant.
Rift -- cracks in earth
Godsend -- gift from god
Castigation -- severe  critics, begin with cast
holdout -- action of resistance  or refusal, simple begin with Ho
Behemoth  --  giant  creature
abduct -- kidnap, start with ab
intermission -- interval time between two mission
Hurdle  -- fence
Ballot -- anonymous vote 
clandestinely -- in a illicit and covert or secretive way
stern -- serious, strict 
flume -- a long feather
Mat  --  a piece of plane made by clothing , paper or grass, such Bar mat , cup coaster.
Remunerate  --  pay someone for his work
Abolition -- shutdown  a organization or a department 
Viability --  hopeful  success.
Jubilation -- a feeling of triumph and great happiness.
Reminiscent -- reminder of the scent of old style 
Glee -- great delight
Scold --  rebuke someone angrily
Adjacent -- connect closely next to 
Grievance -- unjust act
Tread -- past is trod , walking
Recede -- go back to previous position
Locomotives  -- the machine contains engine to pull the train 
Inward -- direction to inside, compare to forward, backward..
Dampen -- make it damp/humid
Denounce -- condemn
Condolence -- sad feelings about someone's death
cohesion -- noun, unity , begin with co

