Recreational --  adj of entertainment
Swarm -- move in or form a swarm 
Bloodshed -- bloody violent event
Capita -- capital.
Spray -- shoot liquid to someone in a form of  small drop. 
Ritual -- a religious or solemn ceremony consisting of a series of  action
Jerky -- turbulent , start with Jer
Balmy -- warm and comfortable 
Prism -- a mirror in triangle , can reflect light into different angle by different colors
Archetype -- prototype, start with arc
Intimidation --  the act of frightening or threatening someone, start win int 
Incitement -- action of provoking illegal behavior 
Scourge -- a whip, start wit scou
Chat -- croon ? Sing for praise?
intifada -- an activity against Israeli
epitomize -- set a perfect example
Radical -- a deepest root, intrinsic, proactive , provoking,
Embolden -- give someone courage
Menace -- something/animal that will harm you?
Stalk -- walk in public
Fervently -- very enthusiastically
Decry -- condemn with cry
Tantamount --  almost as the same as , barely different
Antisemitism -- ism against jew 
Synergy -- get energy	together 
Tabloid -- a newspaper have half size
Broadside -- severe critics
blistering -- (of criticism) expressed greatly
Tumultuous -- making an uproar or loud , confused noise.
Disband -- dismiss a band
Resentment -- sentiment of angry 
Hatred -- noun of hate
enact -- make a law, act as 
Collude -- plan together 
Repression -- almost the same with suppression 
Analogues --  non digital signal, for  old style radio  and tv.
Mastermind -- an person with outstanding intelligence 
Conspiracy  --  a secret evil plan
Intent -- deliberately plan to do sth
Confinement -- lock in a room ,  not lawful , usually a punishment for child if they do something wrong.
Dismay -- noun , expression of stunning, end with may
verdict -- a judgement by court
Numb  -- no feeling or unconscious about sth
Tycoon -- prominent person
Encroach -- invade , but domestic, trespass.
Wrack -- reck, pay heed to something
Heed -- pay attention .
Improvise -- create in randomly
Perversion -- blending
Possess -- own 
imam -- the person who lead the preach in a mosque. 
Recitation -- read loud the Bible or Quran
Siege -- surround by army

