Outset -- begin , start with out
Flattery -- compliment , start with flat
Onus --  responsibility , start with O
Downplay --  intent to play something to be less important
Annex -- add as an subordinate part
To be mired in sth -- trap  in sth, stuck in bog.
Offhand -- act without preparing.
Steep -- precipitous, start with st
ailing -- cause ill , start with ai
Introvert -- be shy, terrified to speak in public
Tribulation -- Suffer, torture, start with Tri
Perfidy  -- betray , break confidence 
Infuriate -- make sb into fury, Pique
Daunt -- sth make sb to fear, start with Da
Flinch -- step back while confronting daunting task.  Start with fl
Fracture -- bone broken, start with Fr
Churn out -- produce many of , star with chu.
Moderate -- people in the middle of, start with Mo
Convergence --  process of converging , trend to meet at a point.
Gape -- to become widen or open,  start with Ga
Chant -- shout aloud repeatedly 
Plummet -- plunge ,  end with met
Secede -- quit , end with cede
Volition -- mind/willing, start with voli*
Perceive -- to feeling sense, adverb , start with per
Mockery --  teasing , start with Mo
Profess -- announce ,  ends fess
Mold -- mould without u
Lavish -- generous , start with L
Crave -- feel a powerful desire for sth, start with cr
Entourage -- a group of people surrounding a prominent people, like a president.
Bask -- lie exposed to warmth and light.
Balk -- hesitate to accept an idea.
Meddle -- intervent , start with M
Ostensible -- adjectives, on the surface, outside
Genocide -- killing all other nationalities 
Putter -- action play golf.
Heralds -- office which dispatch commands
Cascade  -- a little waterfall
Harbinger -- a person or thing which  announces signal to another thing, start with H
Dabble -- hit water while swimming
Ornate -- highly decorated .
Cupola -- roof like a hemisphere 
Grandeur -- spectacular , start with gran
Crisscross -- all cross , 
Preside -- take the job of president 
Adversely -- badly, in disadvantage,  start with adv
Papyrus -- ancient paper
Nostalgia -- Reminiscent , start with No
Cue -- imply, start with C
Repatriation -- send the foreigner back to their homeland.
Trek -- long distance hike 
Lush -- thriving , start with Lu
Dent -- a slight hollow in the surface after blowing by a rock or stone.
Retaliation -- revenge	, action of returning military attacking 
Slate -- schedule, start with sl
Elude -- evade ,escape ,  run away from ,  start with El

