Precipice  --  a landscape in mountain, that the shape of terrain that go down steeply. Cliff.
Theocratic --  under the religious law , for example by Bible, or Quran.  
Clergy --  stuff of church.
Tenuous -- flimsy , thin, like a fiber.  start with ten ..
Swell -- become bigger , when your parts of body get hurt , often happens  at ankle ,wrist .
Brittle -- fragile, fractious 
Fester --  exacerbate, aggravate,  worsen, deteriorate 
Snapback --  a baseball cap .
Bazaar -- a market in Middle East.
Desecration -- devastation of the sanctity 
Handout -- donation, action of patrons
Conciliatory -- in way of making peace with concessions for both sides.
Renominate -- redo the nomination to extend the tenure 
Incompetence -- not competent to do one's job
Asbestos  --  a heat-resistant material , but proven cause cancer of lung.
Ventilation -- a system to swap air for a building.
Fret  -- be visibly worried about 
Ebb  -- the movement of tide go out to sea.
Imperialist -- adjective of ideology of imperialism 
Thunderclap -- the sound of thunder
Intricate  -- complicate and complex 
Whim -- a sudden desire or change of mind
Clerical -- religious  official 
Tantalize --  tease .  start with Tan
Demise -- death , termination
Reprisal -- retaliation, revenge, retribution 
Rebuke -- scold, start with R 
Antsy -- agitated , impatient or restless .
Lid -- a cap of bottle .
Defection -- betray , perfidy 
Disruption -- rasie interruptions
Bias --   incline  , start with bi
Capitulate -- surrender 
Grovel  -- beg by much lower voice and tone 
Reparation -- money for repairing , reimburse,  for devastation of war mostly .
Ravenous -- very hungry 
Abhor -- hate , be averse To do,  start with ab ,
Antagonism  --  active hostility or opposition, malicious  
Biting -- vitriolic, start with b 
Fraught -- full of , influx 
Maroon -- dark red, 
Honking -- horn of car 
Perpendicular  -- at a angle of 90 degrees to a line or plane
Lurch -- tilt ,start by L
Trickle -- flow in a small stream . 
Inflame  -- exacerbate,  aggravate , deteriorate ,  worsen 
Dystopian -- terrifying , start with dis
Hellhole -- place like hole of hell
Directive -- order , start by dir
 
