WORLD CHINA6 MIN READ
17 HR AGO
Analysis by
 Simone McCarthy
Chinese leader Xi Jinping reviewe troops during a military parade marking the 80th anniversary ...
Beijing — Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s decision to place the country’s top-ranking
general under investigation is a stunning move that leaves Xi virtually alone at
the top of the military hierarchy – raising deep questions about the implications for
the world’s largest armed forces, as well as Beijing’s ambitions to take control of
TaiwanXi has absolute control over China’s military.
Now he wants more
World Sign in2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 1/9

Taiwan.
But the purge also makes one thing clear: Xi sees no target as too big to be taken
down as he remakes the military according to his vision – and prioritizes loyalty
over all else.
The investigations into Zhang Youxia, a battle-tested, seasoned military commander
and longtime Xi ally, and Liu Zhenli, who heads People’s Liberation Army (PLA)
joint operations, were announced Saturday in a terse 30-second video released by
the defense ministry.
A subsequent editorial in the People’s Liberation Army Daily accused Zhang and
Liu of “seriously trampling on and undermining the system of ultimate
responsibility resting with the Central Military Commission chairman” – jargon that
suggests they were a threat to the thing that matters most in Xi’s eyes: his authority.
The allegations mark an apparent culmination in a ruthless, more than decade-long
eﬀort by Xi to oust opposition and clean up alleged graft. In recent years, that purge
has depleted the military’s upper echelon, with more than 20 senior military
oﬃcials placed under investigation or ousted since 2023.
Just how deep that eﬀort runs is now made even clearer in the probe against
Zhang.
The general had long been seen as an unassailable, close, ally of Xi – another
“princeling” son of revolutionaries, whose ties with the Chinese leader go back a
generation to their fathers who fought together in China’s Civil War.
“This is potentially a seismic shift in Chinese politics under Xi, and how he governs
– this really demonstrates nobody in that system is safe, truly,” said Jonathan Czin,
a fellow at the Brooking Institution’s China Center.
The purge has “reached a crescendo now where it’s hit the uppermost echelons of
the party,” said Czin, also a former CIA analyst on China. That suggests Xi has2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 2/9

concluded “the rot is so deep in the PLA and the mismanagement is so gross at the
top that he needs to clean house within an entire generation of leaders.”
And when it comes to Zhang, that downfall is “almost Shakespearean,” Czin said,
coming within the broader arc of how Xi began by going after enemies proﬁting oﬀ
their positions, moved on to target even those he appointed himself and is now
taking down even those with whom he’s had a long-standing relationship.
“For Xi to get rid of a guy like this is really remarkable … because there’s so little
trust and because the politics are so vicious (in this system), those kind of
relationships are even more of a precious commodity …they don’t take years to
build, they take decades, or in this instance, potentially a lifetime.”
Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Zhang Youxia attended the National People's Congress
in Beijing last March. (Tingshu Wang/Reuters)
Xi’s ‘unassailable position’
2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 3/9

The circumstances around Zhang’s investigation remain unclear likely not only to
those outside but also within the black box of China’s military, a massive and
opaque entity even by China’s usual standards.
The Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources familiar with a high-level brieﬁng
on the allegations, that Zhang had been accused of leaking “core technical data on
China’s nuclear weapons to the US” as well as accepting bribes for oﬃcial acts
“including the promotion of an oﬃcer to defense minister.” CNN has not veriﬁed
those claims and has reached out to China’s defense ministry for comment.
But some experts wonder whether allegations of sharing secrets could merely be
part of the party’s eﬀort to drum up explanations to ease concern within its ranks
rather than legitimate concerns.
And rumors have swirled in the vacuum of information.
Those include speculation about Xi losing his grip on power, a theory experts
largely reject. Others have focused on whether Xi is quashing rival factions within
the military, which some observers say is plausible if the leader believed inﬁghting
was distracting top oﬃcials – or if Zhang was becoming a challenge his authority.
RELATED ARTICLE
Roiled by purges and buffeted by US frictions, China’s leadership
meets to chart country’s rise
6 MIN READ
The oﬃcial language used in the PLA Daily editorial “could suggest that Zhang was
becoming too powerful for Xi’s liking,” according to Neil Thomas, a fellow at the
Asia Society Policy Institute’s Center for China Analysis.
It could also mean “simply that he betrayed (Xi’s) trust by helping corrupt the
procurement bureaucracy and/or not doing his utmost to create a cleaner ﬁghting
force,” he said.2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 4/9

Since coming to power in 2012, Xi has driven a sweeping eﬀort to reshape the
military, not just to make it into a modern force able to take on rivals like the
United States and back China’s territorial claims, but, more importantly, to defend
the party – and its leader – no matter what.
That’s a goal that’s widely seen as driven by Xi’s shrewd look at history as he eyes
autocratic regimes that have fallen when leaders lost control of the military. It’s also
one that is closely linked to the organization of China’s military, which is controlled
by the party, not the state.
A massive reorganization and technological modernization have gone hand in
hand with an anti-corruption drive. Dozens of high-ranking military oﬃcials and
defense sector executives have been taken down in the latest wave of those eﬀorts
since 2023.
But Xi’s push to purge even his top brass more likely stands as testament to his
power than weakness, experts say.
“The fact that Xi Jinping has been able to cashier so many PLA elites since he
assumed power … is a clear sign his position in the regime is unassailable,” said
James Char, an assistant professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of International
Studies’ Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies in Singapore.
‘State of disarray’
The latest move now leaves Xi virtually alone at the top of China’s military
hierarchy.
The powerful Central Military Commission he chairs had six uniformed members
after a regular leadership reshuﬄe in 2022. The latest probe (though yet to result in
formal expulsions), leaves just one of those members standing: Zhang Shengmin,
the military’s anti-corruption tsar.2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 5/9

High-level ousters have left the PLA leadership “in a state of disarray right now,”
said Thomas at the Asia Society.
“There are barely any oﬃcers left at the rank of general. I’m sure there are capable
people waiting in the wings, but they’d all be new to senior leadership positions,”
he said, noting Xi may use the more than 18 months before the next leadership
reshuﬄe to vet new leadership candidates and “weed out the inﬂuence of existing
patronage relations.”
But in the meantime, Xi has already been tapping second-line PLA oﬃcers to largely
informally ﬁll roles vacated by their disgraced predecessors across both Central
Military Commission departments and branches of the military, according to Char
in Singapore.
“The PLA’s daily operations have carried on as normal despite these purges since a
younger – and perhaps more professional – oﬃcer corps is on hand to assume those
responsibilities,” he said.
But what that means for Beijing’s broader ambitions – including its goal to take
control of self-ruling Taiwan – is less clear. China’s ruling Communist Party claims
the island as its own territory, despite never having controlled it.
At the heart of that question are the matters of whether there will be an impact to
the immediate operability of the military, the morale of the rank and ﬁle, or any
timelines that Beijing may have for preparedness to achieve that goal, including
through the use of military force.
The probe of Liu in particular underscores those questions, analysts say, given his
role coordinating the PLA’s top combat command institution.
But that might not be an issue of too much concern for Xi at the moment, according
to Brookings’ Czin.2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 6/9

Instead, he said, the Chinese leader is likely looking at a US administration that
doesn’t seem “particularly interested” in the issue of Taiwan and at the potential
for a change of power in the Taiwan elections in 2028, and calculating: now is a
“safe time to clean house.”
Sign in
World
US Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
ScienceSearch CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 7/9

Climate
Weather
Winter Olympics 2026
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Features
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
World
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutNewsletters
Transcripts
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 8/9

2026/1/27 10:58 Analysis: Xi has absolute control over China’s military. Now he wants more | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/26/china/xi-jinping-zhang-youxia-military-probe-intl-hnk 9/9
