Eurostar trains and hundreds of
flights cancelled as Storm Goretti
brings heavy snowfall and ice
Story by Gavin Blackburn• • 4 min read
Euronews (English) 75.3K
 Follow
Followers
15h
Summarise
Western Europe is dealing with more snow and ice on Wednesday as
Storm Goretti, the first named storm of the year, hits the continent’s
Atlantic coast.
Hundreds of flights in France and Belgium have been grounded, with
passengers stranded at airports. Eurostar services are experiencing
delays and some cancellations.
Drivers across the continent are being warned of dangerous road
conditions.
Around 100 flights were cancelled at Paris' Charles de Gaulle airport
on Wednesday morning because of snowfall and fierce cold, and a
Hundreds of flights cancelled at Paris
airports
Euronews (Engl ish)
Hundreds of flights cancelled across Western Europe
as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
The Backpack
That Travelers…
Nordace·Sponsored
Feedback2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 1/7

further 40 at the French capital's Orly airport, France's transport
minister said.
The disruption had been predicted late on Tuesday, with Transport
Minister Philippe Tabarot telling CNews television he was "hoping the
situation returns to normal this afternoon".
Related
Flight delayed or cancelled by winter weather? Here are your
rights to rebooking and refunds
All public bus services in Paris and the surrounding suburbs were also
suspended due to icy roads, though the vast majority of metro and
suburban rail systems were still working, transport officials said.
French state railway company SNCF has warned passengers about
disruptions and delays, saying that “snow on the tracks is forcing us
to limit train speed and cancel trains or adjust traffic”.
The Meteo France weather service said 38 of the country's 96
mainland departments were on alert for heavy snow and black ice,
with three to seven centimetres of snow already accumulated.
It said the cold snap was of "rare intensity for the season" and
authorities had already warned people in the Paris region to avoid
unnecessary travel and work at home if possible on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, one of the largest in
Europe, announced at least 700 flight cancellations on Wednesday
because of snow and wind, following days of weather-related travel
disruptions.
The majority of European services have been grounded until the end
of the day, while a few international planes are still taking off with
delays.A person skies along the Seine river banks after snowfall in Paris, 7 January, 2026 AP Photo
Passengers stranded at Amsterdam's
Schiphol Airport
2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 2/7

More than 1,000 people spent the night at Schiphol, the airport said,
adding that it had set up camp beds and offered breakfast to
travellers forced to sleep there.
The number of cancellations is expected to rise throughout the day.
In Belgium, at least 40 flights were cancelled at Brussels Airport on
Wednesday with officials there warning of delays throughout the
entire day.
Due to the de-icing of aircraft and clearing snow from runways, the
airport warned on its website that delays are expected for all of
Wednesday.
"Our winter operations teams are prepared and will make every effort
to minimise the impact on the airport," the statement said.
Budapest Airport in Hungary said 20 flights had been cancelled
overnight after the capital received one of the heaviest snowfalls in
15 years.
Some travellers stuck at airports have resorted to alternative routes
via train and road, but weather conditions are also hampering those
options.
Eurostar said in a service update that its trains between London and
Paris, Amsterdam and Brussels "are likely to be subject to severe
delays and last-minute cancellations" due to heavy snowfall.
Currently, services between London and Paris are showing delays
until mid-afternoon. Many trains between Brussels and London andA cyclist rides down a street covered with snow in Antwerp, 7 January, 2026 AP Photo
Eurostar trains cancelled and delayed
City-Ready
Nordace·Sponsored2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 3/7

Amsterdam and London are operating with limited services, meaning
travellers cannot disembark at intermediate stops.
Rail and road networks in the Netherlands have been snarled by
snowfall. Rail operator NS urged travellers to “delay your journey if
possible”. Both domestic and international trains were affected, the
company said.
In the United Kingdom, a yellow warning for strong winds is in place
for Cornwall, Devon and the Isles of Scilly as Storm Goretti is
expected to cause disruption across much of the southwest.
Across Bristol, Bath, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, a yellow snow
warning will be active until midday on Friday.
The storm system is also expected to bring heavy snow to Wales by
the end of the week.
The Met Office has warned that heavy snowfall could cause difficult
travelling conditions and lead to delays.
The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) also extended amber cold
health alerts for England until Sunday.
Nordic countries were also facing snow-related chaos, with officials
in eastern Sweden warning that power cuts were "likely" because of
heavy snowfall.
Trams were suspended in the western city of Gothenburg and the
authorities in the wider region warned people not to drive and stay
at home if possible.
In Denmark, the authorities in the far-north region of North Jutland
warned people to brace themselves for heavy snow but said the
situation was under control.
"For now, calm prevails in North Jutland, but we are taking the
weather forecast very seriously," police wrote in a statement.
"We also urge citizens to prepare and keep safety advice in mind,
especially if they have to travel in difficult traffic conditions."Travellers warned of icy conditions in the
UK
Plunging temperatures see deaths and
injuries2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 4/7

Sponsored Content
More for YouSince the mercury dropped on Monday, five people have died in
France.
With the chill making roads perilous, three people died in accidents
linked to black ice in southwestern France on Monday morning,
authorities said, while a taxi driver died in hospital on Monday night
after his vehicle veered off the road and plunged into the Marne river
in the Paris region.
In Hungary, a woman died after a car skidded on ice and crashed into
another vehicle on Wednesday, according to the interior ministry.
After nearly 40 centimetres of snow fell in the Bosnian capital
Sarajevo at the weekend, a woman died in hospital after being hit by
a tree that collapsed under the weight of the snowfall on Monday,
according to police.Children play in the fresh snow during heavy snowfall in the centre of Nagykanizsa, 6
January, 2026 AP Photo
Talkpal AI
Top AI App for Faster
Language Learning
Sponsored
RS Singapore
RS PRO Analogue, Digital
Bench Power Supply, 0 →
800V, 0 →  1.44A, 1-Output,…
Sponsored
Singapore°C282026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 5/7

Sponsored Content
Daily Mail·19h
Europe's Arctic storm chaos: Thousands sleep at
Dutch airport and France closes motorways
2
Metro·1w
Cabin crew explain why
window blinds must be up
during landing
4
Daily Mail·10h
Medical assist
woman killed 
lion while hiki
Watch the moment two planes
collide above the clouds
Mentour Pilot 14.5K
 Follow
Followers
1w
Two planes crossed paths near Carmel, New York — and a split-second
misjudgment triggered an avoidable mid-air collision above 10,000 feet.
One aircraft survived with severe damage, while the other lost critical
control systems and began an uncontrollable descent. With no elevators
and almost no pitch control, the crew used engine thrust to keep the…
1
7
Search the webgp2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 6/7

More for You2026/1/8 14:38 Eurostar trains and hundreds of ﬂights cancelled as Storm Goretti brings heavy snowfall and ice
https://www.msn.com/en-sg/news/other/eurostar-trains-and-hundreds-of-ﬂights-cancelled-as-storm-goretti-brings-heavy-snowfall-and-ice/ar-AA1TJWfT?ocid=… 7/7
