POLITICS11 MIN READ
3 HR AGO
By
 Kevin Liptak,
 Alayna Treene,
 Kylie Atwood,
 Zachary Cohen,
 Natasha Bertrand,
Adam Cancryn
Military vessel HDMS Knud Rasmussen of the Royal Danish Navy patrols near Nuuk, Greenland, ...
Flying home this month from an extended Christmas vacation in Palm Beach,
President Donald Trump was momentarily taken aback when a reporter asked
him about the ice-covered island he’s openly trying to annex.Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military
pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible?
2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 1/18

“How did we come up to Greenland?” he asked, incredulously, on January 4. “We’ll
worry about Greenland in about two months. Let’s talk about Greenland in 20
days.”
As it turns out, it took far less than two months for everyone to be talking about
Greenland. And the president himself is driving the conversation.
What began during his ﬁrst term as a novel — if, at least in the minds of some
advisers, not entirely serious — bid to control the massive Arctic landmass has
turned into a ﬁxation that is causing the worst crisis between the United States and
Europe in generations.
The sudden escalation in the early weeks of this year of Trump’s eﬀorts to seize
control of Greenland has left European allies badly shaken and sent his own aides
rushing to develop policies that would fulﬁll his widening threats, even as some are
worried the president might be taking things too far in asserting the US will settle
for nothing less than total control of the country.
While Trump’s team is largely aligned with him on the importance of having US
control of Greenland for national security reasons, many of his top advisers are not
on the same page about the best way to achieve it.
“We don’t want to make it a state,” one Trump adviser said. “But do we want an
alliance with them? No question about it.”Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 2/18

Even as Trump ratchets up his aggressive rhetoric about wanting to annex the
country, and refuses to rule out military means to do so, several oﬃcials are wary
of such a drastic step. Instead, the preference among many of Trump’s allies going
forward is that the president uses the tariﬀ threat as a negotiating tool, creating an
opening for more concessions from the Europeans and resolving it all in an “Art of
the Deal”-style negotiation.
“They believe they can try to pressure Denmark into a deal, even if it doesn’t lead to
ceding the entire territory,” another source familiar with the discussions said.
“Having some sort of cooperative control of Greenland would accomplish the same
goal.”
White House spokesperson Anna Kelly said in a statement for this story that “The
entire administration is prepared to execute any plan to acquire Greenland that the
President chooses.”
“President Trump leads on all foreign policy, and he was not elected to preserve the
status quo,” she said. “Many of this President’s predecessors recognized the
strategic logic of acquiring Greenland, but only President Trump has had the
courage to pursue this seriously.”
At least some European leaders still hold out hope such a deal is possible. After
conversations with Trump this weekend, some oﬃcials said the president appeared
receptive to their clariﬁcations on why some European nations were sending troops
to Greenland. According to a senior British oﬃcial, Trump conceded in a phone callAdvertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 3/18

with Prime Minister Keir Starmer that he may have been given “bad information”
on the European deployment of troops to Greenland.
One European oﬃcial said NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, a Trump conﬁdant,
seems convinced a deal is possible to give the president an oﬀ-ramp, and has been
raising the possibility privately of a renegotiation of the 1951 agreement between
the US, Denmark and Greenland, potentially with some strong guarantees that
Chinese investments in Greenland would be prohibited.
Oﬃcials say Trump’s most recent, aggressive pursuit of Greenland began after the
successful US military mission at the start of this month to capture then-Venezuelan
President Nicolás Maduro, which cemented in the US president’s mind a vision of
American hegemony over the entire Western Hemisphere. Some European oﬃcials
said they are fearful, too, that their decision to dispatch troops from Den mark
and other NATO nations for joint military exercises over the weekend might have
backﬁred, irking Trump and convincing him to move more quickly than he
otherwise would have.
“Right now, we are going to do something on Greenland, whether they like it or
not,” Trump said on January 9, ﬁve days after appearing surprised to hear the
island was on anyone’s mind. “Because if we don’t do it, Russia or China will take
over Greenland.”
RELATED ARTICLEAdvertisement
Politics Sign in2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 4/18

Why does Trump want Greenland and why is it so important?
8 MIN READ
A long-standing obsession
Around the midway point of his ﬁrst term in oﬃce, Trump began asking an usual
question of his myriad acquaintances and advisers: Did they think the United States
should purchase Greenland?
There are various accounts of how the idea ﬁrst came to the president, who was at
that point still relatively inexperienced in the world of diplomacy. Ronald Lauder,
the billionaire cosmetics heir who has known Trump for decades, is among those
who ﬁrst raised the idea with him, former oﬃcials said. It was also discussed
during some of the president’s intelligence brieﬁngs.
From the start, the oﬃcials said, Trump appeared ﬁxated on Greenland’s size — or
at least how large in appears on maps using the Mercator projection, which makes
the island’s 836,000 square miles appear roughly the same size as Africa. Even if the
island is smaller than it appears, acquiring it would amount to the largest
territorial acquisition by any American president — and would make the US the
largest country in area on Earth.
Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 5/18

Ice covers the water in the harbor on March 8, 2025, in Ilulissat, Greenland. (Joe Raedle/Getty
Images)
Trump’s aides at the time did not dismiss the idea outright. Greenland’s strategic
importance in the Arctic was clear to many, and concerns about Russian or Chinese
inﬂuence had been growing. A small group at the National Security Council was
tasked with providing options for Trump — most of which involved scaling up the
US military presence, and none of which involved a military takeover.
Once the idea became public, however, its feasibility appeared to wane. The Danish
government declared Greenland was not for sale. Oﬀended, Trump abruptly
canceled a planned visit to Copenhagen and called the prime minister “nasty.” The
idea was rarely mentioned in public again.
Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 6/18

Until early last year. After winning the presidency again — without mentioning
Greenland once during his campaign — Trump renewed his pledge to take control
of the territory, and refused to rule out military action to do it.
The ‘Donroe Doctrine’
One year later, Denmark’s foreign minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, was hours away
from boarding a ﬂight for Washington when word came of a notable addition to his
planned meetings with Trump administration oﬃcials to discuss the fate of
Greenland.
The talks, arranged hastily amid Trump’s renewed push to acquire the island, were
originally just with Secretary of State Marco Rubio. Now, Vice President JD Vance
wanted to join.
The addition of Trump’s No. 2 — who traveled to Greenland last year to accuse
Denmark of failing to invest in its Arctic territory — immediately upped the stakes
of the meeting. Vance has been harshly critical of Europe over the past year, and
shown a willingness to forcefully advance Trump’s demands.
But during the meeting, it was Vance who proposed that there could potentially be
a “middle ground” that further discussions could work toward, but there was noAdvertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 7/18

detailed discussion of what that potential idea might look like, a Danish oﬃcial said.
The demands on Greenland had been intensifying following the daring mission to
capture Maduro on January 3. Trump had come to view the capture of the
Venezuelan leader as a major achievement for the US, and many of the
conversations leading up to and following the operation centered on America’s
global inﬂuence, people familiar with the conversations said.
The White House declared in a statement that using the military to annex
Greenland “is always an option.” Stephen Miller, one of Trump’s most powerful
advisers, argued on CNN that the US had a right to take Greenland, citing a world
“that is governed by strength, that is governed by force, that is governed by power.”
Miller’s wife, Katie Miller, posted a social media picture of the island covered in the
red, white and blue.
In internal conversations, Trump and Rubio framed the Venezuela operation as
crucial to the US expanding its dominance over the Western Hemisphere — the
central tenet of Trump’s so-called Donroe Doctrine. As part of those discussions,
Trump’s long-held desire to expand that reach to the Arctic has taken on a more
fervent urgency, sources said.
“Trump believes the US is the only country that can properly ensure the Arctic
region is secure and to properly fend oﬀ Russian and Chinese aggression,” a White
House oﬃcial told CNN.Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 8/18

Denmark's Foreign Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, on January
14. (Nathan Howard/Reuters)
It was against that backdrop that Rasmussen, a seasoned diplomat who once served
as Denmark’s prime minister, entered his meeting with Vance and Rubio. He
emerged less than 90 minutes later to describe the talks as “frank and
constructive,” without resolving the “fundamental disagreement” over the US
taking Greenland.
The words could barely paper over the tension. As he departed the White House
with his Greenlandic counterpart, Vivian Motzfeldt, the pair were spotted smoking
cigarettes in a nearby parking lot.
Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 9/18

As it turns out, the uncomfortable meetings paled in comparison to how much
worse the situation was about to get.
A new threat, and new fears
It was almost in passing that Trump mused Friday about applying new tariﬀs on
nations who oppose his Arctic ambitions.
“I may put a tariﬀ on countries if they don’t go along with Greenland, because we
need Greenland, because we need Greenland for national security,” Trump said in
an aside during an event focused on health care.
At the time, there was little planning underway by his team to draw up such tariﬀs,
a source familiar with the matter said. In fact, the very authority Trump would use
to apply them is still being decided by the Supreme Court.
Twenty-four hours later, however, the idea had become a full-blown threat — with
speciﬁc deadlines for action. Starting February 1, Trump wrote, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Finland would
face a 10% tariﬀ, which would increase to 25% on June 1, “until such time as a Deal
is reached for the Complete and Total purchase of Greenland.”Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 10/18

The decision to dispatch troops from Denmark and other NATO nations for joint
military exercises over the weekend were viewed by many NATO diplomats as
having backﬁred and triggered Trump’s tariﬀ threat, four European diplomats told
CNN. Rather than boosting NATO’s presence in Greenland, it served to show Trump
that Danish-led activities were capable of improving Arctic security.
Danish soldiers disembark at the port in Nuuk, Greenland, on January 18. (Mads Claus
Rasmussen/Ritzau Scanpix/AFP/Getty Images)
A scramble ensued to clarify for Trump what the military moves meant. Three
European leaders who maintain the closest ties to him — Starmer, Rutte and Italian
Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni — all tried explaining on the phone Sunday. Rutte
even told Denmark on Monday to refrain from sending any more troops, a
European oﬃcial said.
Despite those calls, it was clear Trump’s advisers wanted to ensure his feelings
were known widely. A text message he sent to Norway’s prime minister over the
weekend — saying he no longer feels bound “to think purely of Peace” because the
2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 11/18

Norwegian Nobel Committee did not award him the Nobel Peace Prize — was also
set by US oﬃcials to multiple European ambassadors in Washington on Sunday, two
sources familiar with the messages said.
The message was unmistakable: Even though last week ended with some glimmers
of hope for how to reconcile the Greenland matter, Trump was hardening in his
intention.
Behind the scenes, European diplomats are angry and aghast. Some have even
privately compared Trump to Russian President Vladimir Putin because it is seen as
a “fool’s game” to try to appease Trump, one US diplomat who had discussed the
matter with Europeans said.
Uninterested in off-ramps
Trump has continued to insist the US needs to own Greenland because of its
strategic importance, its potential attractiveness to Beijing and Moscow and
because, he says, it is vital for developing his space-based missile defense system,
known as the “Golden Dome.”Advertisement
Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 12/18

But US oﬃcials and experts overwhelmingly agree that the Trump administration
does not need to own Greenland to facilitate the project, despite the territory’s
value when it comes to missile defense — as reﬂected by the assets already
positioned there.
An early warning radar at the Pituﬃk Space Base, formerly known as Thule Air
Base, on Greenland is already in place. Other US resources in the United Kingdom
also provide coverage for the region, one US oﬃcial noted.
“The question is, ‘What is it that the Trump administration believes they will get
from owning Greenland in terms of ballistic missile defense and air defense in
space’ versus Greenland’s current rhetoric, which is, ‘You can send in however
many troops you want. You can have as many bases as you want. We will cooperate
with you guys,’” said a source familiar with discussions between bipartisan
lawmakers and Danish oﬃcials about the Golden Dome during a recent
congressional visit to the country focused on Greenland.
For Trump, the answer is obvious. He has never viewed merely placing more US
bases, radars or missiles in Greenland — which the Danes have said they are ready
and willing to accommodate, as they did during the Cold War — as an alternative to
controlling the island entirely. Kelly, the White House spokesperson, said in her
statement “As the President said, NATO becomes far more formidable and eﬀective
with Greenland in the hands of the United States, and Greenlanders would be
better served if protected by the United States from modern threats in the Arctic
region.”
Advertisement2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 13/18

Indeed, Trump has been consistent that the only way to truly reap Greenland’s
beneﬁts is to own it outright.
“We could put a lot of soldiers there right now if I want, but you need more than
that,” he said last week. “You need ownership. You really need title.”
CNN’s Jim Sciutto contributed to this report.
Up next
Trump says ‘anything less’ than US control of Greenland is ‘unacceptable’
6 MIN READ
US will take Greenland the ‘hard way’ if it can’t do it the ‘easy way,’ Trump
says
3 MIN READ
Who can save NATO from Trump as he escalates bid to grab Greenland?
8 MIN READ
Trump considering new tariffs on countries that oppose his annexation plans
for Greenland
3 MIN READ
Trump threatens new tariffs on European allies over Greenland until deal
reached, as thousands protest
7 MIN READ
Why does Trump want Greenland and why is it so important?
8 MIN READ
Most popular2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 14/18

Sign inA year into Trump’s second term, Iowa voters offer clues for the midterm elections 1
Trump vows executive order to protect Army-Navy game from competing football
broadcasts2
Who can save NATO from Trump as he escalates bid to grab Greenland? 3
Trump has tariffs. Europe has a ‘trade bazooka.’ This Greenland standoff could get
ugly, fast4
Inside plans to rebuild the ‘top-secret’ bunker beneath the White House East Wing 5
Body of Canadian woman, 19, found surrounded by dingoes on Australian island 6
Aftermath video of latest ICE shooting involving a man officials say assaulted an
officer contradicts officials’ account7
Trump officials investigate protesters who interrupted Minnesota church service,
targeting ICE official8
Putin invited to join Trump’s ‘Board of Peace’ for Gaza, Kremlin says 9
Buffalo Bills fire Sean McDermott 10
Search CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 15/18

World
US Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Features
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
Politics
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APPFOLLOW CNN POLITICS2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 16/18

Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutNewsletters
Transcripts
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 17/18

2026/1/20 10:59 Even some Trump advisers are wary of a military pursuit of Greenland. Is an off-ramp possible? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/19/politics/military-greenland-trump-denmark-nato 18/18
