CLIMATE5 MIN READ
DEC 17, 2025
ByMichelle CohanHe brought over 600 water bodies back to life.
His next mission: saving India’s vanishing
stepwells
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 1/14

Chennai, India — EDITOR’S NOTE:  Call to Earth is a CNN editorial series committed to reporting on the
environmental challenges facing our planet, together with the solutions. Rolex’s Perpetual
Planet Initiative has partnered with CNN to drive awareness and education around key
sustainability issues and to inspire positive action.
Against the backdrop of a growing water crisis in India, an
ancient, subterranean, labyrinth-like structure is emerging as one solution toCaption: Built centuries ago across India, stepwells are elaborately crafted, terraced stone
reservoirs that collect and store potable water. They were a primary source of accessing
groundwater. (Getty Images)
Seven photos: Reviving India’s stunning
stepwells7 photos
Climate Sign in2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 2/14

bolster its shrinking reserves: stepwells.
These intricate, terraced repositories were once the lifeblood of Indian
communities — developed centuries ago to store and access water for drinking,
agriculture and industry, they also functioned as a local gathering spot.
Today, many of these architectural marvels have deteriorated — victims of neglect,
pollution and a rapidly urbanizing India, which is now the most populous nation in
the world. But an Indian environmentalist has made it his new mission to tap into
this technology of the past, to secure water for its future.
For the almost 20 years, Arun Krishnamurthy has worked to bring India’s blighted
bodies of water back to life through his organization Environmentalist Foundation
of India (EFI). As part of the Rolex Perpetual Planet Initiative, EFI has restored 657
water bodies across 19 states — from lakes to ponds, and most recently —
stepwells.
RELATED ARTICLE
From Google to garbage disposal: the environmentalist cleaning up
India’s lakes
6 MIN READ
“Stepwell restoration is the next big implementation challenge that I would like to
add to EFI’s responsibilities because we have a greater responsibility now onAdvertisement
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 3/14

protecting these historical assets, which are a testament to human intelligence,”
Krishnamurthy tells CNN during an interview in India.
EFI already draws on the stepwell ingenuity of its forebearers to guide its lake and
pond restoration eﬀorts, he adds.
“The engineering of it, land use, understanding the hydrological ﬂow, the storage
parameters: How was the embankment laid? Where was the palm tree planted?
How was the canal cut?” Krishnamurthy says, “so taking lessons from the past,
adapting it to the present-day challenges is what we are implementing.”Advertisement2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 4/14

Arun Krishnamurthy, founder of Environmentalist Foundation of India, has restored countless
freshwater bodies. (Michelle Cohan / CNN)
Despite his extensive experience rehabilitating freshwater bodies, Krishnamurthy
says stepwells are uniquely demanding. Restoring these ancient structures calls for
specialized traditional knowledge and craftsmanship — and even after they are
revived, vandalism makes their upkeep an ongoing struggle.
EFI hires local experts with generational knowledge relating to the speciﬁc wells
they aim to revive.
It has just begun planning the renovation of a stepwell in Devanahalli, near
Bangalore, that has gone completely dry. Although the stone infrastructure is
mostly intact, Krishnamurthy says this stepwell will require some aesthetic
improvements. It will also need community engagement and accountability to
safeguard its future.
The storied history of stepwells
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 5/14

As one of the most advanced ancient civilizations in the world, India was known
for its sophisticated urban planning — from its grid-structured cities to its elaborate
stepwells and temple tanks.
“Hundreds of years ago, there was no electricity, people were dependent on surface
water bodies,” Krishnamurthy says, “they needed deep down underground storage
units slowly but steadily pumping water from (the) ground below to raise up — so
stepwells or temple tanks were created.”
These ornately carved reservoirs capture and store rainwater, which slowly ﬁlters
through layers of sand and porous stone, making it clean for drinking.
The addition of descending steps allowed people to access the water year-round,
even as levels ﬂuctuated.Advertisement2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 6/14

Once vital during dry spells, these wells evolved into elaborate structures with pavilions and
shrines. (David von Blohn/CNN)
In India, water is considered sacred, so many wells were crafted as inverted
temples, embellished with carvings and divine sculptures as an expression of
reverence for the precious resource.
What began as primitive cavities dug into the ground, have transformed into
architecturally signiﬁcant, aesthetically appealing solutions to the water crisis,
Krishnamurthy notes.
Restoring stepwells
EFI has restored two stepwells to date and has another six slated for 2026,
according to Krishnamurthy. The Moosi Rani Sagar stepwell in Alwar, Rajasthan,
was the ﬁrst structure EFI restored in 2022, alongside Hinduja Foundation, the
Prince Albert II de Monaco Foundation and Ashok Leyland.
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 7/14

Set at the foothills of the Aravalli — the oldest mountain range in India — the
stepwell had long served as a vital water source for the city. But years of neglect left
it in disrepair: solid waste accumulated, contaminating the water, and the once-
robust stonework began to crumble. They repaired the infrastructure, removed
waste, and improved water quality and quantity.
Krishnamurthy maintains that maximal conservation can be achieved with
minimal intervention: these restorations do not depend on major modern
technological enhancements. But they do demand a specialized workforce
equipped with the generational knowledge to keep their architectural integrity
intact.Advertisement
The restoration of the Moosi Rani Sagar stepwell in Rajasthan. (Environmentalist Foundation of
India)
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 8/14

“There’s so much science behind it, the kind of material they use, the kind of artisan
skill sets with which they developed and built them,” Krishnamurthy says, “so
learning all of it and working on stepwells has been quite a remarkable experience
for me.”
A country shaped by water
India’s story has always been shaped by water. From the glaciers in the Himalayas
to the wetlands of the south, the nation is home to a vast network of waterways. It
is also home to one of the most populated river basins — the Ganges — which spans
more than 2,510 kilometers (1,560 miles) and supports hundreds of millions of
people.
The Ganges is continually classiﬁed as one of the most polluted rivers in the world
— chocked by untreated sewage, agricultural waste and industrial runoﬀ.
This heavily contaminated river is considered extremely holy, believed by many
Hindus to be the physical embodiment of the goddess Ganga. Water holds deep
spiritual signiﬁcance in India, where several religious traditions link elements of
the natural world to divine beings or sacred energies.Advertisement2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 9/14

“Water and nature worship has been an integral part of our cultural evolution,”
Krishnamurthy tells CNN.
“We understood that without water, there’s no life,” he adds, “for us, water is God,
and water means energy, and thanking water is what most and all celebrations are
about.”
These celebrations, often involving oﬀerings cast into the water — from ﬁgurines to
decorative plastic ﬂowers — take place daily, from the banks of the Yamuna River
in Delhi to Chennai, on the Bay of Bengal. Unfortunately, Krishnamurthy notes, this
Call to Earth: Reviving India's waters
24:03
Advertisement2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 10/14

practice contributes to pollution — not just in natural waterways but also in
stepwells.
“This irresponsible behavior towards nature, and cultural heritage structures, is the
reason why we are in this mess,” Krishnamurthy says.
It is very demotivating at times, Krishnamurthy confesses, but vows he won’t give
up.
To change the tide, EFI engages in public awareness campaigns, school programs
and wall paintings to help build a sense of community ownership to ensure the
long-term preservation of these important, life-sustaining structures.
“To even have the basic opportunity to work on some of these is, I think, a
blessing,” he adds, “and we are ready to give our fullest to it.”Advertisement
Up next
The world has entered a new era of ‘water bankruptcy’ with irreversible
consequences
4 MIN READ
Confusion remains after Trump administration abruptly halts public health
funding to cities and states, then reverses course
3 MIN READ
2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 11/14

The man who saved two strangers’ lives on a mountain
14 MIN READ
Massive sewage spill flowing into Potomac River upstream from Washington
4 MIN READ
The natural disaster preparation supplies you need for wildfires,
earthquakes, hurricanes and tornadoes, according to experts
17 MIN READ
Like digging ‘your own professional grave’: The translators grappling with
losing work to AI
5 MIN READ
Most popular
CNN video analysis sheds new light on killing of Alex Pretti 3:51 1
Dana Bash presses Greg Bovino about video analysis that appears to contradict DHS
account of fatal shooting of Alex Pretti 20:022
Multiple angles show Minnesota ICE shooting 1:14 3
Private jet carrying 8 people crashes at Bangor, Maine, airport, FAA says 4
'SNL': Elon Musk wins a Trump award 1:09 5
Federal agents in Minneapolis fatally shot a man who DHS says was armed 1:35 6
Videos appear to show federal officer took gun away from Alex Pretti just before fatal
shooting, CNN analysis finds7
Another killing by a federal officer deepens Trump’s self-inflicted political nightmare 8
How Gregory Bovino became the face of Trump’s immigration crackdown 9
Trump says he’s skipping the Super Bowl: ‘It’s just too far away’ 102026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 12/14

Sign inSearch CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 13/14

World
US Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Winter Olympics 2026
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Features
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
Climate
FOLLOW CNN2026/1/26 13:26 He brought over 600 water bodies back to life. His next mission: saving India’s vanishing stepwells | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/climate/india-water-crisis-stepwell-restoration-arun-krishnamurthy-c2e 14/14
