BUSINESS5 MIN READ
UPDATED 2 HR AGO
By
 Bryan MenaFederal prosecutors open criminal investigation into
the Fed and Jerome Powell49,504.070.48%
 06,966.280.65%
 Q23,671.350.81% s Hot Stocks Fear &
Greed
Index
51Latest
Marke
News Federa
prosec
open
crimin
investi
into th
and Je
Powell
The US
taking
contro
Venezu
and
targeti
Green
The Do
could 
50,000
Trump
housin
plan c
Wall S
as the
villain. 
got the
wrong2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 1/9

Washington — Federal prosecutors have opened a criminal investigation of Federal Reserve
Chair Jerome Powell over his June testimony before Congress about the central bank’s $2.5
billion renovation of its headquarters in Washington, DC,
The stunning action against the independent Federal Reserve was met with an equally
extraordinary statement posted by Powell in a video Sunday night, in which he said the
investigation was a direct result from his ongoing struggle with the administration over
interest rates. Powell said it was a consequence of broader “threats and ongoing pressure”
by the administration.
“The threat of criminal charges is a consequence of the Federal Reserve setting interest rates
based on our best assessment of what will serve the public, rather than following the
preferences of the President,” Powell said in a statement late Sunday.
The probe sends a chilling message to Powell – and to whomever might next lead the Fed.
President Donald Trump’s unyielding attacks on the Fed chair, whom the president has said
he will not renominate, have hammered on the Fed’s traditional political independence.
Trump has even said he should have a say in rate decisions.
But the criminal probe takes Trump’s ﬁght with the Fed to a whole new level. It shows that
whoever Trump selects to replace Powell at the conclusion of his term in May will face
continuing pressure from the administration to lower interest rates.
Investors and economists across the globe prize the Fed’s independence. It guarantees
policymakers will think of the long-term ramiﬁcations of setting monetary policy – and not
short-term political whims – when steering the economy.
Jerome Powell responds to criminal investigation into him and the Fed
1:55
2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 2/9

Jerome Powell, chairman of the US Federal Reserve. (Al Drago/BloombergGetty Images)
On Sunday, Powell directly linked the probe to the question of the Fed’s independence and its
ability to set interest rates without political interference.
“This is about whether the Fed will be able to continue to set interest rates based on evidence
and economic conditions—or whether instead monetary policy will be directed by political
pressure or intimidation.”
Justice Department spokesperson Chad Gilmartin declined to comment on the investigation
but said in a statement to CNN that the attorney general wants to “prioritize investigating
any abuse of tax payer dollars.”
The White House referred CNN to the DOJ statement. In an interview with NBC News on
Sunday, Trump denied knowledge of the investigation, saying, “I don’t know anything about
it, but he’s certainly not very good at the Fed, and he’s not very good at building buildings.”
A year-long pressure campaign
Trump and his allies have repeatedly slammed Powell over the past year for not cutting
interest rates to the president’s liking. The Fed in the second half of last year lowered rates
2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 3/9

three times in row, though oﬃcials have recently said they’re unlikely to lower rates again
for a while.
Trump’s pressure campaign has included a barrage of personal insults at Powell, evolving
into threats to ﬁre the Fed chair. However, Powell has maintained that Trump does not
have the authority to ﬁre him.
Later in the year Trump targeted Fed Governor Lisa Cook, appointed by then-President Joe
Biden. The president and his allies accused Cook of mortgage fraud. Trump cited the
allegations when he ﬁred her in August, although Cook has not been charged criminally. The
Supreme Court will hear oral arguments later this month on whether Trump can
terminate Cook.
The Fed’s renovation has also been a source of ongoing controversy. Powell testiﬁed before
Congress in June, saying the renovation was a collaboration with various agencies and that
costs had changed over time.
President Donald Trump and Jerome Powell tour the Federal Reserve’s headquarters renovation
project in July . (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 4/9

Trump has threatened to sue Powell over the renovation. Last month, the president said he
was considering “a suit against Powell for incompetence.”
Trump allies such as Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Bill Pulte and Oﬃce of
Management and Budget Director Russ Vought have claimed the project was mismanaged.
But the Fed says the upgrades to its decades-old buildings were necessary, including
removing asbestos and upgrading electrical and ventilation systems.
The acrimony spilled out into public view in July, when Trump joined Powell on a tour of
the project. Powell corrected Trump in front of reporters about the cost of the project, with
the tension between the two men palpable.
Powell’s replacement
The federal probe comes as Trump prepares to announce his pick for Powell’s replacement
once his term ends in May. The decision will cap a months-long search process for arguably
the most inﬂuential role in the global economy.
Trump has hinted that the next Fed chair might be National Economic Council Director
Kevin Hassett, though he has also recently interviewed Kevin Warsh, a former Fed governor,
and is expected to interview BlackRock Global Fixed Income Chief Investment Oﬃcer Rick
Rieder.
Trump has said he will announce his pick “early” this year.
After the federal probe became public late Sunday, Republican Sen. Thom Tillis of North
Carolina said in a post on X that he will “oppose the conﬁrmation of any nominee for the Fed
—including the upcoming Fed Chair vacancy—until this legal matter is fully resolved.” Tillis
is not seeking re-election.
Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts echoed that in a statement Sunday: “The
Senate should not move forward with any Trump nominee for the Fed, including Fed Chair.”
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat from New York, also criticized the move,
saying in a statement: “Trump’s assault on the Fed’s independence continues, threatening the
strength and stability of our economy.”2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 5/9

“This is the kind of bullying that we’ve all come to expect from Donald Trump and his
cronies. Anyone who is independent and doesn’t just fall in line behind Trump gets
investigated,” Schumer said in a statement.
Investors and analysts also fretted about the probe and what it could mean for the world’s
largest economy.
“We are stunned by this deeply disturbing development which came out of the blue after a
period in which tensions between Trump and the Fed seemed to be contained,” wrote
Krishna Guha, vice chairman at Evercore ISI, in a note.
“At the time of writing we are still looking to get more information and context, but on the
face of it, it looks as if the administration and the central bank are now in open war…”
This story has been updated with additional information.
CNN’s Hannah Rabinowitz, John Towﬁghi and Tami Luhby contributed reporting.
Up next
How Trump is building a case to fire the Fed chair, explained
7 MIN READ
It’s about to officially become Trump’s economy
5 MIN READ
Trump officials see fraud everywhere. Here’s what we know
9 MIN READ
Trump purges ‘lame duck’ claims with brute force, retribution and play for global
domination
8 MIN READ
Judge says Trump’s acting US Attorney investigating Letitia James is serving
unlawfully
4 MIN READ
What’s behind the highly unusual move to block Minnesota officials from investigating
ICE shooting
4 MIN READ
2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 6/9

Sign in
World
US PoliticsMost popular
Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and Jerome Powell 1
Venezuela has a ton of oil. It also has something else America needs 2
Trump weighs potential military intervention in Iran 3
DHS Secretary Noem defends her statements made hours after deadly ICE shooting 19:20 4
Suspect arrested after a fire destroys the only synagogue in Jackson, Mississippi, 6 decades
after a KKK bombing5
Cell phone footage raises new questions about ICE agent’s tactics before fatal shooting 6
Minneapolis Mayor Frey responds to DHS Secretary Noem: 'Sounds like she doesn't believe a
single word she's saying' 7:347
US will take Greenland the ‘hard way’ if it can’t do it the ‘easy way,’ Trump says 8
How Trump’s capture of Maduro can be traced to Marco Rubio’s boyhood front porch 9
Anti-ICE protests held across US after agent’s fatal shooting of a woman in Minneapolis 10
Search CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 7/9

Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Features
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
Business
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two
minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the
property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are
proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been
licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial
Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones brandedFOLLOW CNN BUSINESS2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 8/9

indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours
provided by Copp Clark Limited.
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutNewslettersTranscripts
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.2026/1/12 15:29 Jerome Powell: Federal prosecutors open criminal investigation into the Fed and the Fed chair | CNN Business
https://edition.cnn.com/2026/01/11/business/federal-prosecutors-criminal-investigation-federal-reserve-chair-jerome-powell 9/9
