2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 1/23

Trump threatens to use Insurrection Act as anti-ICE protests
ﬂare following another shooting in Minneapolis
Updated 9:27 PM EST, Thu January 15, 2026
What we know so far
• Insurrection Act: President Donald Trump warned he might invoke
the centuries-old law to deploy US troops to Minnesota as state and
federal oﬃcials clash over tactics used by immigration agents.
• Another shooting: Law enforcement and demonstrators clashed last
night near where a federal agent shot and injured a man after he
allegedly assaulted the agent. During the struggle, DHS said two people
came out of a nearby apartment and attacked the oﬃcer with a snow
shovel and a broom handle. After the suspect got loose and joined the
attack, the oﬃcer ﬁred “defensive shots,” DHS said, striking the man in
the leg.
• High tensions: A CNN crew was hit with pepper balls after a kind of
projectile was thrown at federal agents at an anti-ICE protest outside the
Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building, where tensions continued to
ﬂare Thursday night. The FBI is oﬀering up to $100,000 for information
ft lg hil dlidltightLIVE UPDATES
Tensions flare in
Minneapolis
LIVE UPDATES
Trump doesn’t rule
out military action in
Iran
LIVE UPDATES
Trump meeting with
Venezuela’s
opposition leader
LIVE UPDATES
En español:
cobertura en vivo de
Venezuela
LIVE UPDATES
Federal officers in tense face off with anti-ICE protesters outside Minneapolis federal building
03:42
2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 2/23

after several agency vehicles were vandalized last night.
35 PostsAll Catch Up
37 min ago
Tear gas and percussion grenades deployed at
protesters outside Whipple Federal Building
From CNN's Kelly McCleary
Tear gas was deployed on protesters outside the Whipple Federal
Building near Minneapolis Thursday night as federal law enforcement
tried to clear a group from the building’s driveway.
The use of tear gas came after several instances of protesters kicking
and banging on vehicles entering and leaving the facility Thursday.
Around 10:00 p.m., a line of Customs and Border Protection oﬃcers
moved down the driveway, pushing protesters back. As that happened, a
separate team of oﬃcers approached from the side, CNN’s Shimon
Prokupecz reported from the scene.
“Out of nowhere, the other team of federal law enforcement oﬃcers
come from this other direction and start ﬁring the percussion grenades
and then they started with the tear gas,” Prokupecz said.
The protesters then appeared to move back from the driveway to an area
across the street.
57 min ago
Following ICE-involved shooting, law enforcement
used ﬂash bang before entering home in search of
suspect
From CNN’s Jillian Sykes
Witness video shows the moment federal agents gained access to a
Minneapolis home on Wednesday night following an ICE-involved
shooting.
According to DHS, federal agents were conducting a “targeted traﬃc
stop” when a Venezuelan national resisted arrest and started to
“violently assault” an oﬃcer.
DHS said two people from what’s described as a nearby apartment came
out and attacked the oﬃcer with a snow shovel and broom handle,
resulting in the oﬃcer ﬁring “defensive shots,” striking the original
suspect in the leg.
The three people ran back into the building and barricaded themselves,US Sign in2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 3/23

pp g
DHS said.
In video obtained by CNN, law enforcement is seen approaching the
home and setting oﬀ a ﬂash bang. Smoke can be seen and ramming
sounds are heard as the witness says “They’re in! There’s more than a
dozen of them.”
The suspect was removed by federal agents and taken to an ambulance,
CNN previously reported.
1 hr 37 min ago
Smoke device deployed as vehicles leave Whipple
Federal Building
From CNN's Taylor Romine
As vehicles were leaving the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building
tonight, a smoke device was deployed from at least one car window,
causing protesters to disperse from the driveway, according to CNN
senior crime and justice correspondent Shimon Prokupecz, who is at the
protest.
Clouds of smoke surrounded protesters but no one appeared to be
injured. As the cars came out of the facility, a couple people kicked the
tires of the vehicles.
After the smoke was deployed, an announcement from the federal
building loudspeaker told protesters to move away from the driveway.
The message has been shared several times throughout the night.
2 hr 55 min ago
Here is how the attorneys representing Renee
Good’s family are preparing for potential litigation
From CNN's Taylor Romine
2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 4/23

Attorney Antonio Romanucci speaks during a news conference in Las Vegas on July 15, 2021.
Ethan Miller/Getty Images North America/Getty Images
The law ﬁrm representing the family of Renee Good ﬁled a letter to the
federal government today demanding they preserve all evidence related
to her fatal shooting by a federal agent, which is the ﬁrst step of a civil
investigation that could potentially lead to litigation, attorney Antonio
Romanucci told CNN’s Anderson Cooper.
Romanucci and the law ﬁrm want the federal government to preserve
any and all evidence related to the investigation, including Good’s car,
cellphone video, dashcam video and communications between agents,
among other things.
Romanucci said his ﬁrm is conducting its own investigation and
demanding the preservation of the evidence, as they “don’t know that we
are going to get the truth only with the federal government investigating
this,” he said. If evidence is not preserved, “that could be very
problematic,” Romanucci added.
He also defended accusations made by federal oﬃcials that Good was a
domestic terrorist, as well as an investigation focusing on her and her
wife, Rebecca Good.
“I won’t dignify in repeating those words, because that’s slanderous,
I believe,” Romanucci said. “She should not be labeled that because
Rebecca and Renee are good people. Renee is a housewife. She is a
mother. She’s a daughter. She’s a sister. She is many things to many
people, not what the government labeled her as.”
2 hr 50 min ago
Agents at Whipple Federal Building deploy pepper
spray after protesters shake fence
From CNN's Taylor Romine
Federal agents at the Whipple Federal Building near Minneapolis have
deployed pepper spray to disperse protesters who were shaking a fence,
according to CNN senior crime and justice correspondent Shimon
Prokupecz, who is at the protest.
One protester could be seen on the ground crying out in pain, having a
liquid poured onto his face by other protesters.
A wall of agents stood a distance behind the fence, standing shoulder to
shoulder.
After several minutes, protesters approached the fence, some touching it2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 5/23

but not shaking it, and agents deployed pepper balls towards the
protesters. They immediately started coughing and backing away,
several saying they couldn’t breathe.
This post has been updated with additional information.
2 hr 45 min ago
Federal officials using physical tactics and warnings
to keep crowd at federal building back
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Federal law enforcement oﬃcers attempt to disperse demonstrators protesting Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) activity outside the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building
in St. Paul, Minnesota, on Thursday. Tim Evans/Reuters
Federal agents right now are managing protests in front of a federal
building near Minneapolis by giving verbal warnings and physically
pushing people back.
In the last few hours in front of the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal
Building, they have not appeared to use tear gas or any type of chemical
to disperse the crowd, despite having those tools with them, according to
CNN senior crime and justice correspondent Shimon Prokupecz, who is
at the protest.
The federal agents are carrying batons and have been physically pushing
the crowd of people from the street to the sidewalk, walking in a line.
When this happens, the oﬃcials and protesters come face to face for a
few minutes before law enforcement walks back toward the building.
Still, the protesters, who have been walking right up to the line of the
driveway, came prepared. Many of them are wearing gas masks and
goggles.ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 6/23

3 hr 31 min ago
"You will be identiﬁed": Federal officials warn
protesters before pushing them back
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Federal law enforcement oﬃcers attempt to disperse demonstrators protesting Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) activity outside the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building
in St. Paul, Minnesota on Thursday. Victor J. Blue/Bloomberg/Getty Images
Federal agents are issuing warnings to protesters at the Bishop Henry
Whipple Federal Building near Minneapolis.
The crowd moved into the building’s driveway before being pushed back
by federal agents. Before the oﬃcials moved into the crowd, a person
using a bullhorn was heard telling protesters not to block the entryway.
“You will be identiﬁed, and we will come arrest you,” the person said.
As cars went in and out, protesters were seen blocking and hitting some
of the vehicles, according to CNN senior crime and justice correspondent
Shimon Prokupecz, who is on the scene.
“Do not strike the vehicles,” the person with the bullhorn said. “You will
be identiﬁed.”
Law enforcement oﬃcials holding what appeared to be batons stood face
to face with protesters, who chanted “shame” at them.
3 hr 33 min ago
Can law enforcement demand proof of citizenship?ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 7/23

From CNN's Piper Hudspeth Blackburn
Many activists have sounded the alarm over reports of immigration
agents demanding people provide proof of citizenship amid tense
protests in Minneapolis against the Trump administration’s immigration
crackdown.
“It’s illegal and it’s unconstitutional to require people to show their
citizenship papers without some other basis to make a stop,” said CNN
Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig.
“In order to stop somebody, detain them, question them for
immigration purposes, an oﬃcer has to have reasonable suspicion,”
Honig continued. “Now, that’s a fairly low bar. It’s lower than the
bar that a law enforcement agent would need to make a stop or
questioning for criminal purposes, but it’s still a bar.”
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem has defended the questioning
of bystanders in certain situations, telling reporters Thursday, that
people “surrounding” someone alleged to have committed a crime may
be asked to “validate their identity.”
The Supreme Court, last September, backed President Donald Trump’s
push to allow immigration enforcement oﬃcials to continue what critics
describe as “roving patrols” in Southern California that lower courts said
likely violated the Fourth Amendment.
The Supreme Court did not provide any analysis explaining their
decision to overturn the lower courts’ rulings. But in a 10-page
concurring opinion, Justice Brett Kavanaugh wrote that in cases where
legal immigrants are stopped by law enforcement, “the questioning in
those circumstances is typically brief, and those individuals may
promptly go free after making clear to the immigration oﬃcers that they
are U. S. citizens or otherwise legally in the United States.”
He also wrote: “To be clear, apparent ethnicity alone cannot furnish
reasonable suspicion; under this court’s case law regarding immigration
stops, however, it can be a ‘relevant factor’ when considered along with
other salient factors.”
Honig pointed to Kavanaugh’s concurring opinion, saying, “So what you
cannot do is just go arbitrarily up to people or set up a checkpoint or go
door to door and say, ‘Hey, you need to prove to us that you’re a US
citizen.’ The immigration oﬃcer needs to have some reasonable
suspicion. You cannot just arbitrarily approach people and make them
prove that they are in fact here legally.”
3 hr 46 min ago
WhenICEagentscanlegallyuseforceonprotesters2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 8/23

When ICE agents can legally use force on protesters
CNN’s Josh Campbell walks through DHS protocols for federal agents.
3 hr 49 min ago
One person arrested for stealing FBI body armor and
weaponry out of car, federal authorities say
From CNN's Taylor Romine
One person was arrested after they allegedly stole FBI body armor and
weaponry from an FBI car last night in Minneapolis, federal authorities
said.
The person is “a known member of the Latin Kings gang” with “a long
list of prior violent crimes,” US Attorney General Pam Bondi said in a
post on X. Earlier in the day, the FBI posted a reward of up to $100,000
for information on FBI vehicles that were vandalized and from which
items were stolen last night.
FBI Director Kash Patel assured more arrests were coming: “Again: any
individual who attacks law enforcement or vandalizes federal property
paid for by hardworking taxpayers will be found and arrested.”
CNN has reached out to the Department of Homeland Security for
information on arrests in Minneapolis over the last two days.
4 hr 11 min ago
Tensions amid protest at Whipple Federal Building
From CNN's Elise Hammond
When ICE agents can legally use force on protesters
02:37
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 9/23

Tensions are ﬂaring at the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal Building near
Minneapolis.
Federal oﬃcers in tactical gear just came out into the crowd. Several
oﬃcers appeared to be detaining someone on the ground, while others
pushed back the rest of the crowd.
They then led that person into the building.
Dozens of oﬃcers then walked back up the driveway while others
formed a line, keeping protesters at a distance.
Earlier, a protester threw what appeared to be a frozen water bottle at a
car, which also brought the federal agents out. Agents then lined up at
the entrance again, across from protesters who were yelling at them
from the middle of the street.
“What if someone came for your family?” one person with a bullhorn
yelled.
For most of the day, the protests around the federal building have
remained calm. The crowd held signs, rang a cowbell and yelled at cars
coming in and out.
But last night, there were intense clashes between federal oﬃcials and
protesters. Law enforcement oﬃcers deployed multiple tear gas
canisters and what sounded like ﬂash bangs before oﬃcials told people
to “go home.”
CNN’s Shimon Prokupecz contributed reporting to this post, which was
updated with additional details from the protest.
4 hr 30 min ago
As night falls on Minneapolis, tensions between
protesters and federal agents remain high. Here's
the latest
From CNN's Amanda Musa
Protester detained outside federal building
00:34
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 10/23

US Customs and Border Protection agents face protesters during a demonstration outside the
Whipple Federal Building in Minneapolis, on Thursday. Tim Evans/Reuters
More than a week has passed since 37-year-old Renee Good was fatally
shot by an ICE agent in Minneapolis, making way for heated — and
sometimes violent — confrontations between protesters and federal
agents.
As city leaders urge the community to remain calm under pressure,
another shooting involving US Immigration and Customs Enforcement is
prompting warnings from President Donald Trump, who is threatening
to invoke the Insurrection Act — a centuries-old law that would allow
the deployment of US troops to Minnesota.
Here’s the latest:
Another ICE-involved shooting: Julio Cesar Sosa-Celis, a
Venezuelan national, was shot and injured by an ICE agent last
night after he resisted arrest and started to “violently assault” the
federal oﬃcer, according to a press releas e from the Department of
Homeland Security. Sosa-Celis was detained along with two others
from Venezuela, Alfredo Alejandro Ajorna and Gabriel Alejandro
Hernandez-Ledezma, DHS said. All three men are living in the US
illegally, according to oﬃcials.
Recent arrests: A number of arrests have been made amid anti-ICE
protests this week, federal oﬃcials have said. Some protesters were
taken into custody this afternoon during demonstrations at a federal
building, US Customs and Border Protection Commander Gregory
Bovino told Fox News. Last night, an armed protester was arrested
for assaulting oﬃcers, DHS said in an X post. CNN has reached out
to oﬃcials for more information.
Insurrection Act: Trump has warned he might invoke the
centuries-old law to deploy US troops to Minnesota. White House
press secretary Karoline Leavitt said it is a “tool at the president’s
disposal” and Trump’s warning “spoke very loud and clear to
Democrats across this country.” The president previously threatened
i khI iAi iICE i2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 11/23

6 hr 5 min ago
CNN crew hit with pepper balls amid Minneapolis
protests
From CNN's Amanda Musa
A CNN crew was hit with pepper balls while at an anti-ICE protest in the
Minneapolis area today.
Demonstrators were confronting a large group of US Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents outside the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal
Building when an object was thrown at oﬃcials.
“Just moments ago, we saw agents coming out of this building in
formation and tried to clear protesters oﬀ of the street,” CNN
correspondent Julia Vargas Jones told Jake Tapper this evening.
“Soon after, some kind of projectile — looked to me like a water bottle —
was thrown at these agents,” Jones said. “And then all of us, including
our crew here, our CNN crew, got hit with some projectiles with pepper
spray.”
ArrestswererecentlymadeoutsidethefederalbuildingwhereantiICEto invoke the Insurrection Act in response to anti-ICE protests in
Portland last fall.
Legal battle: Teresa Nelson, legal director of the American Civil
Liberties Union of Minnesota, called Trump’s Insurrection Act
threats “unnecessary, dangerous and wrong.” The organization also
ﬁled a class-action lawsuit against the federal government today
claiming immigration agents violated US citizens’ Fourth
Amendment rights.
Twin cities on alert: Federal agents pulled over two vans of
students and staﬀ on their way to school in St. Paul, Minnesota, in
separate incidents this week, a school district spokesperson said.
Starting next week, students “who do not feel comfortable coming to
school” can participate in virtual learning, Saint Paul Public Schools
said in a Facebook post.
CNN's Julia Vargas Jones describes pepper ball incident
00:36
2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 12/23

Arrests were recently made outside the federal building where anti-ICE
protests have been happening daily, US Customs and Border Protection
Commander Gregory Bovino told Fox News this afternoon.
CNN has reached out to authorities for more information.
6 hr 19 min ago
Federal agents pulled over vans of students heading
to school in St. Paul, district spokesperson says
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Federal agents pulled over two vans of students and staﬀ on their way to
school in St. Paul, Minnesota, in separate incidents this week, a school
district spokesperson said.
The incidents happened on Monday and Wednesday, Erica Wacker, a
spokesperson for St. Paul Public Schools, said in a statement to CNN.
The district said “staﬀ followed the district’s protocols, and both vans
were able to continue to school without further disruption.”
Wacker did not elaborate when asked what those protocols are. The
vehicles were “contract vans” that had the van company’s name on them,
according to the spokesperson.
Wacker said staﬀ members in the vans were able to keep everyone “calm
and safe.”
Starting next Thursday, students “who do not feel comfortable coming to
school” can participate in virtual learning, Saint Paul Public Schools said
in a Facebook post. After the holiday Monday, there will be no school
next Tuesday or Wednesday to give teachers time to prepare, the post
said.
In another school district: Minneapolis Public Schools is also oﬀering
online learning through February 12, according to its website. The
district said more information was shared directly with families.
This post has been updated with information about virtual learning at
Minneapolis Public Schools.
3 hr 31 min ago
FBI offers up to $100,000 reward for information on
vandalized government cars
FromCNN'sTaylorRomineADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 13/23

From CNNs Taylor Romine
A vandalized car believed to belong to federal law enforcement after law enforcement
oﬃcials deployed tear gas and munitions at protesting community members in north
Minneapolis, on Wednesday. Leah Millis/Reuters
The FBI is oﬀering up to $100,000 for information on several FBI
vehicles that were vandalized, broken into and had property taken from
them while the agency’s personnel responded to the Minneapolis
shooting last night.
A CNN crew saw two vehicles that appeared ransacked and vandalized
last night. One car was seen with “F**k ICE” painted on it, while another
had “America land of the obey or die” written on it. The photos shared by
the FBI show similar phases painted in red on the vehicles.
“If you harm law enforcement or destroy / steal federal property this
@FBI will not hesitate to pursue you, ﬁnd you, and bring you to the
fullest extent of justice,” FBI Director Kash Patel said in a post on X.
8 hr 27 min ago
US citizens were at work or shoveling snow when
agents tackled or detained them, lawsuit says
From CNN's Holly Yan
The ACLU of Minnesota’s lawsuit against the federal government lists
ordeals suﬀered by several US citizens in the past two months, ACLU staﬀ
attorney Catherine Ahlin-Halverson said:
– Mubashir Khalif Hussen, 20, was walking during his lunch break
when he was violently stopped, pinned to the ground, placed in a
headlock and taken away by agents who refused to look at his US
passport card until after he was in detention, the attorney said.
MahamedEydarus25wasshovelingsnowwithhismotherwhenADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 14/23

– Mahamed Eydarus, 25, was shoveling snow with his mother when
masked federal agents pulled up in unmarked vehicles, the lawsuit
states. “The agents told Mr. Eydarus’s mother to remove her niqab, which
is a cultural and religious face covering, and then separated Mr. Eydarus
from his mother.” After they were detained “for a lengthy period,” the
attorney said, Eydarus and his mother were released. Now, “Mr. Eydarus
is scared to go about his daily life in public, as he fears being again
detained based on his Somali descent and appearance,” the lawsuit
states.
– Plaintiﬀ Javier Doe, who was born in Minnesota, was tackled by an
agent near the entrance of the Target where he worked, the lawsuit said.
Despite Javier’s repeated statements that he’s a US citizen, the agents
handcuﬀed and dragged him into an SUV, the ACLU said. While
handcuﬀed, Javier slipped and his head slammed into the SUV, the
lawsuit says. He was shoved into the car, and agents drove oﬀ “with
rapid acceleration, while playing Mexican music loudly,” the suit says.
After agents looked at Javier’s identiﬁcation, they left him in a Walmart
parking lot, the attorney said.
The defendants named in the lawsuit include the Department of
Homeland Security and its reporting agencies. A DHS spokesperson
responded to the lawsuit in an email to CNN:
“These allegations are disgusting, reckless, and categorically
FALSE,” the email said.
“What makes someone a target for immigration enforcement is if
they are illegally in the U.S.—N OT their skin color, race, or ethnicity.
Protected under the Fourth amendment of the U.S. Constitution,
DHS law enforcement uses ‘reasonable suspicion’ to make arrests.
There are no ‘indiscriminate stops’ being made.”
8 hr 18 min ago
ACLU sues federal government after agents violently
stop and detain US citizens, attorney says
From CNN's Holly Yan
The ACLU of Minnesota ﬁled a class-action lawsuit against the federal
government Thursday claiming immigration agents violently arrested or
detained US citizens who were minding their own business.
“The Trump administration has been clear in its targeting of the Somali
and Latino communities through Operation Metro Surge,” the group
said. “President Trump called people from Somalia ‘garbage,’ said ‘we
don’t want them in our country,’ and told them to ‘go back to where they
camefrom’”2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 15/23

came from.’”
Since then, agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
Customs and Border Protection “have indiscriminately arrested —
without warrants or probable cause — Minnesotans solely because the
agents perceived them to be Somali or Latino,” the ACLU of Minnesota
said.
The defendants named in the lawsuit include the Department of
Homeland Security and its reporting agencies.
A DHS spokesperson called the allegations “disgusting, reckless, and
categorically FALSE” in an email to CNN.
“DHS law enforcement uses ‘reasonable suspicion’” and “NOT their skin
color, race, or ethnicity,” the spokesperson said.
The ACLU is asking the US District Court of Minnesota for an emergency
order “to stop ICE, CBP, and other federal agents from continuing to
violate Minnesotans’ rights,” the attorney said.
“ICE and CBP’s practices are both illegal and morally reprehensible,”
Ahlin-Halverson said. “Federal agents’ conduct — sweeping up
Minnesotans through racial proﬁling and unlawful arrests” — violate the
Fourth Amendment, which protects Americans against unreasonable
searches and seizures.”
8 hr 35 min ago
Arrests made outside Minneapolis federal building
amid anti-ICE protests, Bovino tells FOX
From CNN's Amanda Musa
Federal immigration oﬃcers confront protesters outside the Bishop Henry Whipple Federal
BuildingonThursdayinMinneapolisAdamGray/APADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 16/23

Building on Thursday in Minneapolis. Adam Gray/AP
Arrests have been made outside a federal building in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, where demonstrators have been confronting US Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agents during daily anti-ICE protests, US
Customs and Border Protection Commander Gregory Bovino told Fox
News this afternoon.
Bovino, who did not specify how many people were arrested or when,
said the arrests were “recent.”
“Some of those protesters and rioters, they want to block the road, make
it diﬃcult for federal law enforcement to do its job,” Bovino told FOX. “So
they’re being pushed out of the road, and if they don’t move, they’re
being arrested.”
CNN has reached out to authorities for more information.
Video from a CNN crew shows more than 100 protesters gathered
outside in below freezing temperatures the Bishop Henry Whipple
Federal Building this afternoon.
While a small group of protesters chanted “F*ck ICE,” others belted out
“We will not put up with ICE” and “ICE out now” as nearby drivers
appeared to support the crowd by honking their horns.
9 hr 3 min ago
Why Trump may be considering invoking the
Insurrection Act
President Donald Trump warned he might invoke the Insurrection Act to
deploy US troops to Minnesota amid protests over immigration tactics.
CNN’s Jake Tapper discusses a few theories why Trump is considering
this move:
2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 17/23

9 hr 3 min ago
Constitutional rights in are being violated in
Minneapolis, says city council president
From CNN's Lauren Mascarenhas
Amid a surge in federal immigration enforcement activity in
Minneapolis, both residents coming out to legally observe what’s
happening and those going about their lives are experiencing signiﬁcant
impacts, Minneapolis City Council President Elliott Payne told CNN
Thursday.
“Many of our residents are out there legally observing the operations of
our federal government to ensure that our constitutional rights are not
getting violated, and what I’m seeing ﬁrsthand is our constitutional
rights being violated,” Payne said.
The presence of federal agents is aﬀecting not just immigrants in the
area, but all community members who are trying to get to work and go
about their daily lives, the city council president said.
“We have lived this already,” Payne said, referring to the aftermath of
Goerge Floyd’s murder in the city in 2020. “We’re living it again, and this
time, we’re living it through our federal government.”
“We are seeing that lack of trust and that lack of integrity coming
directly from our federal government right now, not just in how they’re
conducting their operations in the street, but how they’re completely
lying to our community about those operations,” he added.
Last week a 37-year-old mother was shot and killed by a federal agent,
and another man was shot and injured by an agent on Wednesday.
“If you think protection means murdering people and shooting them in
the head, then I don’t want that protection from our federal
government,” Payne said.
5 hr 36 min ago
Threat of Insurrection Act hangs over Minnesota.
CatchuponthelatestafterasecondshootinglastTrump threatens to invoke
insurrection act in MN
03:05
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 18/23

Catch up on the latest after a second shooting last
night
From CNN's Elise Hammond
Law enforcement work the scene of a shooting on Wednesday in Minneapolis. John Locher/AP
President Donald Trump is threatening to invoke the Insurrection Act
to quell anti-ICE protests in Minnesota as tensions ﬂare following
another shooting involving a federal agent in Minneapolis last night.
It comes after the deadly shooting of Renee Good by an ICE agent last
week, which sparked nationwide protests.
Here’s the latest:
Insurrection Act: Trump has warned he might invoke the
centuries-old law to deploy US troops to Minnesota. White House
press secretary Karoline Leavitt said it is a “tool at the president’s
disposal” and Trump’s warning “spoke very loud and clear to
Democrats across this country.” The president previously threatened
to invoke the Insurrection Act in response to anti-ICE protests in
Portland last fall.
Agent-involved shooting: A federal law enforcement agent was
trying to conduct a “targeted traﬃc stop” of a Venezuelan national
last night, when he began resisting the arrest, the Department of
Homeland Security said. Two other people came outside with a
shovel and the oﬃcer ﬁred a shot that hit the man in the leg.
Clashes overnight: Law enforcement and demonstrators clashed
last night near where the man was shot. Some vehicles were
ransacked and vandalized, with “F**k ICE” and “America land of
the obey or die” spray painted on them. Flash bangs and gas
canisters were deployed. City and state leaders, including
Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey, called for calm.
What Noem is saying: DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said she
discussed the Insurrection Act with Trump, but it is his decision
whether to move forward. Additionally, federal agents may ask
peoplewhoare“surrounding”apersonallegedtohavecommitteda2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 19/23

CNN’s Kaanita Iyer, Toni Odejimi, Samantha Waldenberg, Holly Yan, Kit
Maher, Danya Gainor, Karina Tsu, Rebekah Riess, Whitney Wild and Sara
Smart contributed reporting to this post.
9 hr 28 min ago
White House says Trump's threat to invoke the
Insurrection Act 'spoke very loud and clear' to
Democrats
From CNN's Samantha Waldenberg
White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt speaks during a press brieﬁng at the White
House in Washington, DC, on Thursday. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters Thursday
that President Donald Trump is the only one who can say what it would
it take for him to invoke the Insurrection Act, but said that his earlier
threattodoso“spokeveryloudandcleartoDemocratsacrossthispeople who are surrounding a person alleged to have committed a
crime to validate their identity during targeted enforcement
operations, Noem said.
Pushback: Teresa Nelson, legal director of the American Civil
Liberties Union of Minnesota, called Trump’s Insurrection Act
threats “unnecessary, dangerous and wrong.” The organization also
ﬁled a class-action lawsuit against the federal government today
claiming immigration agents violated US citizens’ Fourth
Amendment rights.
ICE second in command: Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Dep uty Director Madison Sheahan is stepping away from her
position to run for Congress in Ohio. Sheahan was one of ICE’s most
visible faces as the agency carried out Trump’s deportation
mandate.
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 20/23

threat to do so spoke very loud and clear to Democrats across this
country.”
“That’s only a question … the president can answer but the Insurrection
Act is a tool at the president’s disposal. As you know, it has been used
sparingly, but it has been used by previous presidents in American
history,” Leavitt said.
“I think the president’s Truth Social post spoke very loud and clear to
Democrats across this country, elected oﬃcials who are using their
platforms to encourage violence against federal law enforcement oﬃcers
who are encouraging left-wing agitators to unlawfully obstruct
legitimate law enforcement operations,” she added.
Trump has warned he might invoke the centuries-old law to deploy US
troops to Minnesota as state and federal oﬃcials clash over tactics used
by immigration agents.
The Insurrection Act – ﬁrst passed in 1792 and tweaked in 1871 – allows
the deployment of troops within the US in certain situations. The law
works in tandem with the Posse Comitatus Act, passed in 1878, which
generally prohibits the use of the military inside the US.
Trump previously threatened to invoke the Insurrection Act and send US
troops in response to anti-ICE protests in Portland last fall. The last time
a president invoked the law was in 1992, when California’s governor
asked President George H.W. Bush for help handling riots in Los Angeles.
11 hr 2 min ago
Residents begin their day in the Minneapolis
neighborhood where the shooting took place
From CNN's Maggie Koerth and Lauren Mascarenhas
A local community member cleans up debris on Thursday near the site of the shooting in
Minneapolis. Stephen Maturen/Getty Images
IntheNorthMinneapolisneighborhoodwheretheshootingtookplace2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 21/23

Sign in
US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
CNN Underscored
EntertainmentIn the North Minneapolis neighborhood where the shooting took place
last night, residents woke up to what appeared to be a relatively normal
morning – a stark contrast to the heated scenes on the ground the night
before.
Children boarded school buses at the intersections where citizens
clashed with law enforcement less than 12 hours earlier, and much of the
debris that littered the street had already been cleaned up, leaving only a
few remnants behind.
There’s a chill in the air, though much of the snow on the ground melted
earlier this week, revealing brown soil peeking through on the
neighborhood’s favorite sledding hill at Farview Park – just north of the
area where ICE agents shot a man while trying to arrest him Wednesday.
Cut oﬀ from much of Minneapolis by highways, the neighborhood feels
more like a small, rust-belt town in northern Minnesota than the
aﬄuent, quirky neighborhoods on the south side of town.
Community members here are eager to protect one another.
As ICE agents pulled in and out of the parking lot of the local Taco Bell
last night, neighbors mobilized to protect the staﬀ, where employees
include immigrants and Spanish speakers. Residents took turns standing
guard in the cold outside the store until 2 a.m., clutching mylar blankets
and hand warmers.
ADVERTISEMENT
Search CNN...
Listen
Watch2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 22/23

Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutSubscribeNewslettersTranscriptsHelp Center
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN2026/1/16 13:13 Live updates: Minneapolis ICE shooting, tensions ﬂare after man is shot in leg after allegedly assaulting federal agent | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/us/live-news/minneapolis-ice-shooting-protests-01-15-26?t=1768540348632 23/23
