2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 1/26

More than 2,400 protesters reported killed in Iran as Trump
issues warning about executions
Updated 11:06 PM EST, Tue January 13, 2026
What we know
• More than 2,400 protesters have been killed since Iran launched a
brutal crackdown to crush dissent last month, according to a US-based
rights group. Over 18,000 people have been arrested, the group reported.
• US President Donald Trump encouraged Iranian protesters to keep
demonstrating, saying “help is on its way.” He also warned Iran against
executing protesters, saying the US would take “strong action” in
response. The US State Department fears a protester
may be executed tomorrow.
• Internet access in Iran has been cut oﬀ for ﬁve days, though some
landline and mobile phone users were able to call abroad on Tuesday
for the ﬁrst time since the government shut down communications.LIVE UPDATES
Iran protest death
toll mounts
LIVE UPDATES
Minnesota
prosecutors resign
LIVE UPDATES
En español:
cobertura de
Venezuela y Cuba en
vivo
RECAP
Trump speaks on the
economy
LIVE UPDATES
Trump warns the US will take 'very strong action' in Iran
02:40
All CatchUpWorld Sign in2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 2/26

48 PostsCatch Up
1 hr 19 min ago
Iran’s UN envoy says Trump violated international
law by urging Iranians to “keep protesting”
From CNN's Helen Regan
Iran’s Ambassador to the United Nations, Amir-Saeid Iravani, speaks at the UN headquarters
in New York, on September 19, 2025. Eduardo Munoz/Reuters
Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations has accused US President
Donald Trump of violating international law after he posted a message
on Truth Social encouraging Iranians to keep protesting and to “take
over your institutions.”
Amir Saeid Iravani, Iran’s permanent representative to the UN, has
written to the secretary-general and the Security Council, calling on them
to condemn the United States and Israel for what it called inciting
violence and interference in Iran’s internal aﬀairs.
“This reckless statement explicitly encourages political
destabilization, incites and invites violence, and threatens the
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and national security of the Islamic
Republic of Iran,” Iravani said in a letter addressed to the UN chief
Antonio Guterres and Security Council president Abukar Dahir
Osman.
Iravani called on UN member states and the Security Council to condemn
“all forms of incitement to violence, threats to use force, and
interference in Iran’s internal aﬀairs by the United States” and to urge
the US and Israel to “immediately cease destabilizing policies and
practices.”
The US and Israel, Iravani said, “bear direct and undeniable legal
responsibility for the resulting loss of innocent civilian lives, particularly
among the youth.”2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 3/26

Some context: Trump has said his administration is monitoring the
deadly protests in Iran and is continuing to weigh potential military
options. The protests began in late December over widespread economic
grievances but the Iranian government has made an eﬀort to cast
protesters as “rioters and terrorists.”
2 hr 59 min ago
The reported death toll in Iran has risen. Catch up
on the latest here
From CNN's Tori B. Powell
At least 2,403 protesters have been killed in Iran since anti-government
demonstrations began in late December, according to the US-based
Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA).
Get caught up on the latest news tonight:
CNN’s Isobel Yeung spoke to a relative of Erfan Soltani, who may be
executed on Wednesday.President Donald Trump warned Iran against executing protesters,
saying the US would take “strong action.” The US State Department
said that Iran was planning to execute protester Erfan Soltani
tomorrow. Trump also held a meeting to discuss Iran at the White
House.
An Iranian doctor has given a rare account of chaotic scenes in both
hospitals and on the streets following the regime’s brutal
crackdown, sharing how he treated scores of patients with bullet
and pellet wounds over multiple days. Learn more here.
While some people have been able to make calls out of Iran, not
everyone is able to get in touch with their loved ones and assure
they are marked safe. Hear how this is impacting people.
Iraq’s national security adviser, Qasim al-Araji, held a phone call
with Ali Larijani, secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security
Council, to discuss recent security developments in the region, Araji
said in a post on X.
An Iranian-Kurdish militant group claimed it has captured an
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) base in Kermanshah
province in western Iran, according to a statement released
Tuesday.2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 4/26

CNN’s Monica Haider, Mohammed Tawfeeq, Kevin Liptak, Max Saltman,
and Nechirvan Mando, Catherine Nicholls,
Jomana Karadsheh and Florence Davey-Attlee contributed reporting.
2 hr 39 min ago
In rare account from inside Iran, doctor describes
patients riddled with bullets and streets covered in
blood
From CNN’s Catherine Nicholls, Jomana Karadsheh and Florence Davey-Attlee
An Iranian doctor has given a rare account of chaotic scenes in both
hospitals and on the streets following the regime’s brutal crackdown
against protesters, sharing how he treated scores of patients with bullet
and pellet wounds over multiple days.
The doctor, has since left the country, allowing him to share his
story, but he does not want to be identiﬁed out of concern for his safety
and that of his family.
Thingsinthehospital“fellapart”onThursdaynightwhentheinternet
Iranian protester faces
execution
02:23
ADVERTISEMENT
‘So much fear’: Doctor shares account of Iran crackdown in CNN
exclusive | CNN
04:18
2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 5/26

Things in the hospital “fell apart” on Thursday night when the internet
shutdown began, the doctor said in an interview with pro-reform news
outlet IranWire and shared exclusively with CNN.
“I saw what we call a ‘Mass Casualty’ situation in medicine. That is
when your potential and facilities to provide services are less than
the population of patients,” he said.
The doctor had to triage patients and  choose which lives to try and save,
he said, based on who was most likely to survive until an operating
room was free.
Overnight Thursday into Friday, the types of injuries the doctor was
treating changed. “It was as if an order had been given: ‘Use live rounds
now,’” he said.
“Friday night, the sound of bursts was coming – not the burst of a
Kalashnikov (an assault riﬂe). I was hearing the sound of Dushka (heavy
machine gun) bursts,” the doctor continued.
The next morning, after leaving his house, the doctor says he saw blood
on the street near his home. Colleagues told him that they had admitted
multiple people shot at close range in the face. Security forces were also
present at the hospital, collecting names and data about those being
treated.
“By Friday evening… all the beds were full. Most had pellet injuries
and similar wounds” the doctor said. “Life is paralyzed. No one is
okay. Even the hope being broadcast abroad doesn’t exist inside
Iran. Everyone is trapped in terror, helplessness, and just a trace of
hope,” he added.
4 hr 3 min ago
Here are some more stories you should read about
the crisis in Iran
From CNN staff
2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 6/26

A person exits a burned out building in Tehran, Iran, on January 10. Some areas of Tehran
sustained heavy damage during ongoing protests. Getty Images
Here are some more headlines we’ve published on the crackdown on
protesters in Iran:
2 hr 13 min ago
Exiled son of Iran’s last shah urges Iranian army to
defect and not harm the lives of protesters
From CNN's Nechirvan Mando and Michael Rios
If you are wondering why there are mass protests and if the US
could get involved, here’s the latest.
As waves of protests have tested the regime’s ability to manage
dissent, the country with arguably the most to gain has been waiting
in the wings, reluctant to intervene even when its regional
adversary is at its most vulnerable point in years. After months of
publicly threatening Iran, Israel has gone quiet. Read more here.
Nationwide protests in 2017, 2018, again in 2019, and most
dramatically in 2022 were crushed with force. Each time, the regime
survived by relying on the same grim playbook: Deny legitimacy to
the protesters, blame foreign enemies, shut down communications,
and unleash the security services. Today, Iranians are once again in
the streets. And once again, the regime appears to be responding
as it always has — with brutal violence. Might the end result this
time be diﬀerent? See analysis here.
Elon Musk’s SpaceX is now providing free internet access via its
Starlink satellit e service to users in Iran according to a tech expert
in touch with Iranian Starlink users. Here’s the latest.
Iran has deployed new techniques to swiftly and decisively crush
nationwide protests, signaling a tactical shift by a regime that now
views domestic dissent as an extension of the summer war with
Israel. Read more of our analysis.
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 7/26

Reza Pahlavi, the son of Iran's toppled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, speaks in Paris in June
2025. Thomas Padilla/AP/File
Reza Pahlavi, the exiled son of Iran’s last shah, ousted by the 1979
Islamic Revolution, has urged members of Iran’s military to protect
Iranian citizens and join the wave of mass protests across the country.
“You are the national military of Iran, not the military of the Islamic
Republic. You have a duty to protect the lives of your compatriots.
You do not have much time. Join them as soon as possible,” he said
on X.
Pahlavi, the eldest son of the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi,
has become a well-known face of the opposition in recent years.
Pahlavi, who has not stepped foot in the the republic since his father was
overthrown, urged the Iranian people to continue to protest the regime
that deposed his father, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, more than 46
years ago.
“The world has not just seen and heard your voice and courage, it is now
responding,” he said.
He also highlighted US President Donald Trump’s recent messages of
support for the Iranian demonstrators, repeating Trump’s reassuring
words to the Iranian people that, “Help is on the way.”
Anti-government protests in Iran
Dec. 29, 2025 to Jan. 12, 2026
High confidence Medium confidence Low confidence
AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN
TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN Caspian
Sea TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz
Rasht Rasht Rasht Rasht Rasht
Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad
Tehran Tehran Tehran Tehran Tehran
Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah
QomQomQomQomQom
IRANIRANIRANIRANIRAN IRAQIRAQIRAQIRAQIRAQ AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN
Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Birjand Birjand Birjand Birjand Birjand
YazdYazdYazdYazdYazd
Kerman Kerman Kerman Kerman Kerman Abadan Abadan Abadan Abadan AbadanShiraz Shiraz Shiraz Shiraz Shiraz
Zahedan Zahedan Zahedan Zahedan ZahedanPAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT
Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 8/26

SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI
ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA
BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN
Persian
Gulf QATAR QATAR QATAR QATAR QATARGulf of
Oman
400 miles
UAEUAEUAEUAEUAE OMAN OMAN OMAN OMAN OMAN 400 km
Data as of Jan. 12, 2026.
Note: The Institute for the Study of War assigns conﬁdence levels (high, medium, or low) to each protest
based on source reliability and quality of evidence. Sources are assessed for bias and historical accuracy,
with higher conﬁdence requiring multiple reliable sources and clear video documentation. Not all reported
protests are mapped — only those that meet the threshold for assigning a conﬁdence level are included.
Source: The Institute for the Study of War with AEI’s Critical Threats Project
Graphic: Lou Robinson and Renée Rigdon, CNN
6 hr ago
Iranian-Kurdish militant group claims seizure of IRGC
base in western Iran
From CNN's Nechirvan Mando and Mohammed Tawfeeq
An Iranian-Kurdish militant group claimed it has captured an Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) base in Kermanshah province in
western Iran, according to a statement released today.
The Kurdistan National Army (SMK), the military wing of the Kurdistan
Freedom Party (PAK), said the operation targeted the IRGC’s
headquarters in Kermanshah. The attack was described as retaliation for
SMK ﬁghters killed in recent clashes in the country.
According to the statement, the group launched the assault from two
directions and successfully inﬁltrated the base, catching the IRGC oﬀ
guard. The SMK claims the attack resulted in casualties among Iranian
forces.
CNN is unable to independently verify SMK’s claims.
There has been no immediate comment from Iranian oﬃcials regarding
the claim. CNN is attempting to reach out to Iranian authorities and has
contacted the country’s embassy in London.
Hussein Yazdanpana, the president of PAK, which is a nationalist and
separatist militant group in Iran, said earlier today that victory against
the Iranian regime “hinges on widespread uprising and legitimate self-
defence against the oppressors.”
6 hr 57 min ago
Atleast2,403protesterskilledinIran,US-basedADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 9/26

At least 2,403 protesters killed in Iran, USbased
rights group says
From CNN's Max Saltman
At least 2,403 protesters have been killed in Iran since anti-government
demonstrations began in late December, according to the US-based
Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA).
The total includes 12 protesters under the age of 18, HRANA’s
spokesperson conﬁrmed to CNN. HRANA also reported at least 18,137
arrests since late December in its latest update.
The new total marks another signiﬁcant increase in HRANA’s estimated
death toll, up from at least 1,850 reported earlier on Tuesday.
CNN is unable to independently conﬁrm HRANA’s ﬁgures, which the
organization says are based on cases it can identify and verify. Given the
ongoing internet blackout in Iran, it is possible the true toll is much
higher.
7 hr ago
Trump says he's heading into meeting on Iran at the
White House
From CNN's Kevin Liptak
President Donald Trump said he’s about to enter a meeting to discuss
Iran at the White House.
Returning from Michigan, he told reporters he expected to receive
updated death ﬁgures amid a regime crackdown on protests.
“I’m going back to the White House now, we’re going to look at the whole
situation that’s going on in Iran. Really bad stuﬀ,” Trump said on the
tarmac at Joint Base Andrews.
Cabinet-level national security oﬃcials were seen arriving to the White
House Tuesday afternoon as the meeting to discuss Trump’s options got
underway.
The oﬃcials included Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary
Pete Hegseth, CIA Director John Ratcliﬀe, Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Dan
Caine, and Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard.
Vice President JD Vance was also expected to attend the session, known
as a “principals” meeting of the National Security Council.
“Iran is on my mind when I see the kind of death that is happening over
there,” Trump went on. “We think so, we’re going to get some accurate
numbers. I’ll have those about 20 minutes. We’ll get some accurate
numbers as to what’s happening with regard to the killing.”
H idthUS ld t“ dil”tth dtddthtllh2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 10/26

He said the US would react “accordingly” to the updated death toll he
receives.
Trump said he couldn’t say what his response would be.
“I can’t tell you that. I know exactly what it would be,” he said.
5 hr 39 min ago
Trump warns Iran against executing detained
protesters
From CNN's Kevin Liptak
President Donald Trump departs the White House on Tuesday. Win McNamee/Getty Images
President Donald Trump on Tuesday warned Iran against executing
protesters, saying the US would take “strong action” if the regime hangs
detained Iranians.
“If they do such a thing, we will take very strong action,” the president
told CBS News in an interview, without expanding on what the US action
would be.
In a Tuesday post on X, the US State Department said that Iranian
authorities are planning on executing detained Iranian protester Erfan
Soltani tomorrow, writing that “more than 10,600 Iranians have been
arrested by the Islamic Republic regime simply for demanding their
basic rights. Erfan Soltani, 26, whose death sentence was issued for
January 14, is among them.”
Trump told CBS hadn’t heard reports about hangings, but warned it
could prompt a forceful US response.
“We don’t want to see what’s happening in Iran happen. And you know,
ifh h h hi h h killiADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 11/26

if they want to have protests, that’s one thing. When they start killing
thousands of people, and now you’re telling me about hanging, we’ll see
how that works out for them,” Trump said. “It’s not going to work out
good.”
Asked what help was on the way for Iranian people, Trump suggested
there could be economic assistance.
“There’s a lot of help on the way, and in diﬀerent forms, including
economic help from our standpoint, and not going to help Iran very
much,” he said.
Correction: An earlier version of this post incorrectly described Erfan
Soltani. He is a protester.
7 hr 45 min ago
Top Iraqi and Iranian security officials discuss border
security
From CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq
Iraqi National Security Adviser Qasim al-Araji, left, and Iran's National Security Council
Secretary Ali Larijani. Getty Images/Reuters
Iraq’s national security adviser, Qasim al-Araji, held a phone call Tuesday
with Ali Larijani, secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council,
to discuss recent security developments in the region, Araji said in a post
on X.
The two oﬃcials stressed the importance of controlling the shared
borders between Iraq and Iran, Araji added.
They also emphasized the need for enhanced coordination and
cooperation “to prevent inﬁltration attempts by terrorist groups across
the border,” according to the Iraqi security adviser.
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 12/26

8 hr 8 min ago
Iranian-Canadian describes growing up under
regime
From CNN's Monica Haider
While some people have been able to make calls out of Iran, not
everyone is able to get in touch with their loved ones and assure they are
marked safe amid the government’s move to shut down
communications.
For Pedram Hamidi, each day brings apprehension as he waits to hear
from his parents in Tehran, unsure if they are alive and well.
“They don’t have access to Starlink or anything,” he told CNN. “It’s really
nerve wrecking. I don’t know what’s happening to them.”
Hamidi grew up in Iran and moved to Canada for school and work after
graduating from high school eight years ago. Though his family has
wanted the regime to end, Hamidi is almost certain his parents are not
out protesting due to their ages.
Iranians “tend to be secular people for the most part, but then the regime
is completely theocratic,” he said. “So it’s at odds.”
The government imposes its ideology on schoolchildren from a young
age, Hamidi explained.
“You’d go to school and you’d have to line up. Within those lines they’d
start playing religious music and chants and this and that. And you’d
have to repeat what they say.”
Hamidi and his classmates would mock those instructions. “They
(schools) would say, ‘Say, Death to Israel.’ And people would say the exact
opposite,” he recalled.
Now, “people have completely moved on from the world that was forced
on us,” he said.
He sees courage in the people’s activism and their opposition to the
Islamic Republic. “It’s just exciting to see it in action on the street; not
just on Instagram or something in the comment section,” he said.
8 hr 11 min ago
Trump urges protesters in Iran to keep
demonstrating as Tehran clamps down on dissent.
Here’s the latest
From CNN’s Maureen Chowdhury
2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 13/26

Fires are lit as anti-government protesters rally in Tehran on January 8. Getty Images
Here’s the latest on our continuing coverage of Iran’s brutal suppression
of dissent in the country.
US President Donald Trump today encouraged protesters to keep
demonstrating, saying that “help is on its way.” He also advised
Americans who remain in the country to leave.
Meanwhile, the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA)
said at least 1,850 protesters have been killed and at least 16,784 have
been arrested since the unrest began in late December.
If you’re just joining us, here’s what happened:
Ramped up rhetoric against Trump: Iranian national security
chief Ali Larijani called Trump one of the “main killers of the
people of Iran” in a post on X after the US president said that he
had canceled any meetings with Iranian oﬃcials due to protester
deaths.
Internet blackout: Tody was the ﬁfth day without internet
service. Some landline and mobile phone users have been able to
call abroad for the ﬁrst time following more than four days of a
communications shutdown.
Pro-regime demonstrators acknowledged the economic plight
gripping Iran but backed authorities’ line that “foreign
interventions” have ampliﬁed the unrest.
UK sanctions against Iran: The United Kingdom will work toward
carrying out more sanctions against Iran, Foreign Secretary Yvette
Cooper said.
European nations weigh in: Several countries summoned Iranian
ambassadors and condemned Tehran’s violent clampdown.
UN experts condemn Tehran’s tactics: Experts appointed by the
United Nations Human Rights Council urged Iran to refrain from2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 14/26

Anti-government protests in Iran
Dec. 29, 2025 to Jan. 12, 2026
High confidence Medium confidence Low confidence
AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN AZERBAIJAN
TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKMENISTAN Caspian
Sea TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY TURKEY Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz Tabriz
Rasht Rasht Rasht Rasht Rasht
Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad Mashhad
Tehran Tehran Tehran Tehran Tehran
Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah Kermanshah
QomQomQomQomQom
IRANIRANIRANIRANIRAN IRAQIRAQIRAQIRAQIRAQ AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN AFGHANISTAN
Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Isfahan Birjand Birjand Birjand Birjand Birjand
YazdYazdYazdYazdYazd
Kerman Kerman Kerman Kerman Kerman Abadan Abadan Abadan Abadan AbadanShiraz Shiraz Shiraz Shiraz Shiraz
Zahedan Zahedan Zahedan Zahedan ZahedanPAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN PAKISTAN KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT KUWAIT
Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas Bandar Abbas
SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI SAUDI
ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA ARABIA
BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN BAHRAIN
Persian
Gulf QATAR QATAR QATAR QATAR QATARGulf of
Oman
400 miles
UAEUAEUAEUAEUAE OMAN OMAN OMAN OMAN OMAN 400 km
Data as of Jan. 12, 2026.
Note: The Institute for the Study of War assigns conﬁdence levels (high, medium, or low) to each protest
based on source reliability and quality of evidence. Sources are assessed for bias and historical accuracy,
with higher conﬁdence requiring multiple reliable sources and clear video documentation. Not all reported
protests are mapped — only those that meet the threshold for assigning a conﬁdence level are included.
Source: The Institute for the Study of War with AEI’s Critical Threats Project
Graphic: Lou Robinson and Renée Rigdon, CNN
CNN’s Billy Stockwell, Kevin Liptak, Catherine Nicholls, Mohammed
Tawfeeq, Soph Warnes, Zahid Mahmood, Kit Maher, Max Saltman, and
Mostafa Salem contributed to this report.
8 hr 26 min ago
Fears grow over fate of Iranian protester who may be
executed on Wednesday
From CNN’s Isobel Yeung, Augusta Anthony and Catherine Nicholls
Fears are growing for the fate of a detained Iranian protester
who may be executed on Wednesday, according to a family member and
theUSStateDepartmentusing lethal force against demonstrators, following what it describes
as “clear violations” of human rights law.
Qatar backs deescalation: Qatar’s prime minister said his country
continues to back “de-escalation eﬀorts” after a phone call with
Iran’s top national security oﬃcial.
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 15/26

the US State Department.
In a Tuesday post on X, the US State Department said that Iranian
authorities are planning on executing Erfan Soltani tomorrow, writing
that “more than 10,600 Iranians have been arrested by the Islamic
Republic regime simply for demanding their basic rights. Erfan Soltani,
26, whose death sentence was issued for January 14, is among them.”
It is believed that Soltani, who was detained by plain-clothed oﬃcers last
Thursday, will be executed tomorrow, Somayeh, a family member of
Soltani, told CNN.  Soltani was not allowed a lawyer or a retrial after
being sentenced to death, said Somayeh, who declined having her full
name published due to security concerns.
CNN has not been able to independently conﬁrm plans for Soltani’s
execution.
His trial was rushed, Somayeh said. Rushed death sentences and sham
trials are a common occurrence in Iran, experts have told CNN.
“This time, the Islamic Republic regime didn’t even bother with its
usual 10-minute sham trial,” states a post on X from the US State
Department.
CNN is reaching out to Iranian authorities for comment.
Iranian Attorney General Mohammad Movahedi Azad said over the
weekend that legal proceedings against protesters, he called “terrorists,”
will be carried out “without leniency, mercy or appeasement,” according
to the semi-oﬃcial news agency Tasnim
Soltani, Somayeh said, is an “incredibly kind and warm-hearted young
man” who has “always fought for the freedom of Iran.”
Somayeh called on US President Donald Trump, who has encouraged
those demonstrating across Iran, to come to the aid of protesters.
“Our demand now is that Trump truly stand behind the words he
said, because the Iranian people came to the streets based on those
statements,” Somayeh said. “An unarmed population trusted these
words and is now under gunﬁre. I beg you, please do not let Erfan
be executed. Please.”
10 hr 1 min ago
Rich and poor are "hungry and angry" in Tehran,
resident says
From CNN's Billy Stockwell2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 16/26

Demonstrators gather in Tehran on January 8. Getty Images
Anti-regime protests in the Iranian capital, Tehran, have divided the city
in recent days, a resident told CNN on Tuesday, with some people ﬂeeing
amid the deadly unrest while others race home after work to get
changed before taking to the streets.
The resident, who asked to remain anonymous due to security concerns,
told CNN that the daytime is eerily quiet before protests resume at night.
“You’ll speak to people working in the coﬀee shops and they’ll say they
ﬁnish their shifts at 6, then go home, change and take to the streets,” the
source said.
Even though protests have become less intense since the weekend, the
situation in the city remains dire, the resident said, adding that some
hospitals are at capacity and cemeteries are turning people away due to
overcrowding.
“The ﬁrst two nights of the big protests — Thursday and Friday — were
huge,” said the resident. “People of all ages came out — young people
with their parents, all walks of life, all parts of the city.”
“Saturday got really, really violent, and that’s when you saw a lot of
people go home and stop going out,” the resident said.
Fed up with the status quo, some people are attending the anti-
government protests on their own, so they can more easily run away
from authorities without fear for the safety of friends or family
members, according to the resident.
“There are people who are armed with knives and other types of
weapons,” the person said.
The demonstrations appear to have some level of coordination, the
resident said, and “the front row/line of the protests includes organizers2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 17/26

and leaders who are coordinating locations, start times, how to close oﬀ
roads and seem to be leading some of the vandalism and violence.”
Meanwhile, other protesters are speculating whether the violence is
being fueled by the Iranian regime itself, or by foreign powers, the
resident added.
But most people are just fed up with the domestic situation in Iran, the
resident said.
“The situation is really, really dire; people are hungry and angry,”
the person said. “Life is unaﬀordable for the rich, let alone for poor
and lower-class people.”
10 hr 9 min ago
Qatari prime minister backs efforts to de-escalate in
phone call with top Iranian official
From CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq and Max Saltman
Qatar's Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Aﬀairs Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman
bin Jassim Al-Thani, during a meeting at the UN headquarters in New York, in July 2025.
Jeenah Moon/Reuters/File
Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim
al-Thani said in a statement that his country continues to back “de-
escalation eﬀorts” after a phone call with Iran’s top national security
oﬃcial.
Al-Thani, who also serves as Qatar’s foreign minister, said he spoke by
phone today with the Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security
Council Ali Larijani, discussing “the latest developments in the region”
amongothertopicsADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 18/26

among other topics.
The prime minister “reaﬃrmed the State of Qatar’s backing of all de-
escalation eﬀorts, as well as peaceful solutions to enhance security and
stability in the region,” the statement concluded.
The statement came soon after Larijani called US President Donald
Trump one of the “main killers of the people of Iran” in a post on X after
Trump said that he had canceled any meetings with Iranian oﬃcials due
to protester deaths.
9 hr 44 min ago
Trump advises US citizens to leave Iran, doesn't
know death toll from protests
From CNN's Kevin Liptak
We’re hearing more reaction from US President Donald Trump, who just
said he hasn’t yet been able to get a ﬁrm grasp of how many protesters
have been killed in Iran as he advised Americans who remain in the
country to leave.
“I would say it’s not a bad idea to get out,” Trump said when questioned
whether US citizens or citizens of US allies should leave Iran.
The president declined to expand on his earlier message that help was
on the way to the protesters.
“You’re going to have to ﬁgure that one out,” he said while speaking to
reporters on a Ford factory ﬂoor in Michigan where F-150 trucks are
assembled.
He said the death toll of the protests in Iran was unclear.
“Nobody’s been able to give me an accurate number,” he said. “I
have heard numbers from — everything’s a lot, one is a lot — but
I’ve heard numbers much lower, and I’ve heard numbers much
higher. We’ll be knowing. We’re probably going to ﬁnd out over the
next24hours.”
Trump advises US citizens to leave Iran, doesn't know death toll
from protests
00:28
2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 19/26

next 24 hours.
At least 1,850 protesters have now been reported killed in more than
two weeks of demonstrations, according to a US-based rights group. CNN
cannot independently conﬁrm that number.
10 hr 15 min ago
Analysis: Iran’s crackdown on protests shows
lessons learned from the summer war
From CNN's Mostafa Salem
Iran has made a tactical shift on how to decisively crush nationwide
protests, by a regime that now views domestic dissent as an extension
of the summer war with Israel.
What began as the regime’s age-old riot-control methods quickly
escalated into advanced techniques to suppress protests, combining
cutting-edge military technology with sophisticated psychological
operations, according to experts.
Low-ﬂying surveillance drones, signal jammers, a rapid-response
propaganda apparatus, and the violent deployment of force were
unleashed simultaneously by a regime keen to learn from each wave of
unrest.
Read more on Tehran’s latest tactics to suppress dissent here.
10 hr 34 min ago
After Trump cancels meetings, Iran’s national
security chief calls him a "killer"
From CNN’s Max Saltman and Mostafa Salem
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 20/26

Iranian national security chief Ali Larijani in September 2025, at a ceremony commemorating
the killing of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, on the outskirts of Beirut, Lebanon.
Mohamed Azakir/Reuters
Iranian national security chief Ali Larijani called US President Donald
Trump one of the “main killers of the people of Iran” in a post on X after
Trump said that he had canceled any meetings with Iranian oﬃcials due
to protester deaths.
Larijani also named Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as the
second “killer” on his list.
The Israeli military has said that it is “prepared defensively and is
continuously improving its capabilities and operational readiness,”
though it considers the protests an “internal Iranian matter.”
Iranian oﬃcials have blamed the unrest on foreign-linked “terrorists.”
11 hr 5 min ago
White House says Trump did not attend Iran meeting
with national security officials
From CNN's Kit Maher
President Donald Trump prepares to depart the White House on Tuesday. Jonathan
Ernst/Reuters
President Trump did not attend a Tuesday morning meeting of national
security principals regarding Iran, White House press secretary Karoline
Leavitt told reporters on Air Force One on the way to Michigan.
Trump is giving remarks on the economy in Detroit, where Leavitt said
Trump is likely to mention Iran.ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 21/26

CNN previously reported Trump was expected to convene senior
national security oﬃcials to discuss how to proceed in Iran, but Leavitt
said Tuesday he hadn’t been scheduled to attend this morning’s meeting
with Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth and
CIA Director John Ratcliﬀe, among others.
Earlier Tuesday, Trump said on Truth Social that he’s canceled all
meetings with Iranian oﬃcials until “the senseless killing of protestors
STOP.”
Trump had said on Sunday that Iran called to negotiate, adding that a
meeting was being set up.
11 hr 21 min ago
Iran’s death toll could be higher than reports say,
but an internet blackout obscures it
From CNN's Zahid Mahmood
2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 22/26

Sign in
Body bags outside Kahrizak Forensic Medical Centre in Tehran, Iran, in this screen capture
from a video obtained from social media ﬁled on January 11. Reuters
Fears are growing that the number of people killed in Iran’s protest is
much higher than what has been publicly reported, but with the country
largely cut oﬀ from the internet, only a portion of the deaths can be
conﬁrmed.
In an update today, the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency
(HRANA) said at least 1,850 protesters have been killed and at least
16,784 have been arrested since the unrest began in December.
HRANA has told CNN that its ﬁgures are based only on cases it has been
able to identify and verify. But with Iran largely oﬄine, the actual toll
could be much higher.
Internet monitoring group NetBlocks says the country has been without
internet access for ﬁve days, since authorities imposed a nationwide
shutdown last week — severely limiting the ﬂow of images, videos and
witness accounts.
Despite the blackout, CNN has been able to reach some people on the
ground when brief landline and mobile calls become available.
Multiple eyewitnesses have described violent crackdowns on protesters
and “chaotic” conditions inside hospitals.
Rare video that surfaced over the weekend from inside Kahrizak
Forensic Medical Center appears to show people crowded around a
monitor, looking to identify their loved ones.
For context: Internet shutdowns are a core tactic of the regime’s
playbook during periods of unrest. In 2019, Iran went almost entirely
oﬄine after nationwide protests gripped the country. And in the wake of
22-year-old’s Mahsa Amini’s death in 2022, the regime shut down the
internet, making it harder to document what was happening on the
ground.
CNN’s Billy Stockwell, Catherine Nicholls, Helen Regan and Hira
Humayun contributed to this report
ADVERTISEMENT
Search CNN...2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 23/26

US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
CNN UnderscoredListen
Watch2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 24/26

Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutSubscribeNewslettersTranscriptsHelp Center
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 25/26

2026/1/14 13:03 Live updates: Iran protests death toll, Trump warns about executions, US tariffs target Iran | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/iran-protests-trump-01-13-26 26/26
