TRAVEL7 MIN READ
17 HR AGO
ByTamara Hardingham-Gill
Amanda Meyer Barkley, originally from Louisiana, with her husband Blake, who she met in ...
In 2018, Amanda Meyer Barkley left her home in Louisiana for what was meant to
be a short vacation in Prague. She planned to stay for a few weeks, then return toThis Amer ican woman traveled to the Czech Republic
eight years ago and decided to stay for goodLiving the  Dream2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 1/15

the United States before moving on to China for a teaching job.
Nearly a decade later, she is still in the Czech capital — now in her 30s, married,
and raising two young children.
Prague, a destination often called the City of a Hundred Spires, has become home.
Barkley and her husband spend their summers with their children in parks like
Letná, Stromovka and Riegrovy Sady, or at the National Agriculture Museum, a
short walk from their apartment. The city’s many dětské koutky — children’s play
corners tucked into cafés and public spaces — make everyday life with young kids
feel manageable, even easy.
“It really is just the most beautiful city with so much history…” Barkley says.
“Between the beauty of the architecture. The city itself, all of the parks and outdoor
spaces… It’s clean. It’s safe. It’s just a really incredible place to live. I feel really
lucky to live here.”
Eight years ago, Barkley could not have imagined this life. When she arrived in
Prague in January 2018, she was in the middle of preparing to relocate to China for
work. She had enrolled in an in-person teaching-English-as-a-foreign-language
course in the Czech capital after learning she needed certiﬁcation to secure the
position in Asia.
Life-changing trip
But she was so enthralled with the city that she didn’t get on her return ﬂight the
following month.
Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 2/15

Prague was not new to her. She had ﬁrst visited in 2015 while traveling through
Europe and admired the city’s famous sights — Prague Castle, Old Town Square —
but felt more drawn to Berlin. “I could live in Germany,” she remembered thinking.
Sign in2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 3/15

Amanda Barkley, pictured in Prague in 2018, was only meant to spend a few weeks in the city, but
decided to stay. (@mandameybar/Amanda Meyer Barkley)
2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 4/15

Back in the United States, she worked as a teacher and continued to travel,
including a year in Australia. When a teaching opportunity in China came up,
Prague seemed like a practical stop — a place to get certiﬁed and then move on.
It was a move that would change the whole course of her life.
She arrived in the city with just a backpack and the intention of focusing on her
month-long course. But things started to unravel when she learned that, because
she already had a teaching degree, the China job didn’t require the extra
qualiﬁcation.
Initially she felt frustrated and upset at wasting money on the airfare to Prague and
on accommodation for a month. Yet she soon found herself enjoying the city,
“hanging out with all these cool people.”
Pivotal momentAdvertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 5/15

Barkley and her husband, who is also from the US, love living in Prague, but are open to returning
home in the future. (@mandameybar/Amanda Meyer Barkley)
“So I just kind of pivoted and said, ‘What would it take for me to stay here now.’”
A few weeks later, Barkley sent an email withdrawing from the role in China. Then
came the hard part: ﬁnding a job and a place to live in a city that she never
intended calling home.
Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 6/15

She took on many part-time jobs teaching and bartending before securing full-time
work later that year. Starting a new life halfway around the world also meant she
needed to buy new clothes so she “could wear something other than the six shirts”
she’d originally brought along with her.
Things weren’t easy at ﬁrst. Because the move to Prague wasn’t planned, she says,
she wasn’t prepared for lean months. Needing to travel to her multiple jobs, but
short of money, she lived frugally, sometimes relying on a diet of eggs and potatoes
to keep costs down.
“That was deﬁnitely my toughest period, ﬁnancially,” she says.
RELATED ARTICLE
She moved from California to Sweden in search of a new adventure —
she wasn’t prepared for the quiet
6 MIN READ
But socially, life was opening up. She formed a close-knit group of friends, many of
whom she met through the teaching course. One of them was Blake, another
American.
“We were just friends for a long time,” she explains. “But about three and a half
years later, we said, ‘Maybe we’re not just friends.”
Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 7/15

They married in 2022. Their two children, now aged one and two, were both born
in the Czech Republic. Barkley currently has an employee card, which is a long-
term residence permit, valid for up to two years, for non-European Union nationals
staying in the country for over 90 days for work.
Over the years, the couple have discussed returning to the United States. For now,
they’ve chosen to stay, deciding it’s the best place to be for their family.
They live in a two-bedroom apartment in Holešovice, a laid-back neighborhood
north of the river, and appreciate how easily they can travel across Europe. Road
trips through Austria, Germany and Italy have become part of family life.
“These opportunities and experiences that would be a lot more diﬃcult to give
them if we lived in a diﬀerent part of the world geographically,” Barkley says.
Living in Prague has required cultural adjustment. Barkley, who chronicles her life
in the city on her Instagram account @mandameybar, says she learned quickly to
drop her “American smile.” Czech people “do not do that at all,” she says. There’s
just “blank stares.”
“Now I’m very used to it, but I’m from the American South where everyone smiles
and everyone talks to you,” she says, adding that she has to remind herself to smile
at people when she visits the United States.Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 8/15

“I would say Czech people in general, are much more reserved than people in a lot
of other parts of the Western world,” she adds, emphasizing that she has found
them to be “genuinely so warm, kind and generous,” even if that warmth takes time
to reveal itself.
Cultural adjustment
The family take a walk in Prague on a snowy day. (@mandameybar/Amanda Meyer Barkley)
She has made some Czech friends, but says most of the couple’s friends are fellow
foreigners, a reality Barkley partly puts down to the language barrier and partly
down to the fact that she works primarily in English-speaking environments. She
has taken Czech lessons “on and oﬀ” and says she “can deﬁnitely get by,” though
bureaucratic tasks remain challenging.
One of the most meaningful diﬀerences, she says, has been the country’s approach
to family life.2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 9/15

RELATED ARTICLE
‘I’ve never lived in a pretty place like this’: How moving from the US to
Germany changed this woman’s outlook on life
6 MIN READ
Mothers in the Czech Republic are legally entitled to 28 weeks of paid maternity
leave and can take up to three years with their employer’s consent. Barkley has
been on maternity leave since 2023 and plans to return to teaching in late 2026.
“It’s been pretty incredible to stay home with the kids…” she says. “To have the
option to stay home with them for a little while… When I moved here, I was single. I
was in my 20s, I wasn’t even thinking about that at all.
“So just the fact that I ended up in this place that’s kind of given us this opportunity
to be there for so much of their young life, it’s really great.”
She also describes a diﬀerent pace of life — less driven by what she calls American
“hustle culture.”
“I’m sure there are people that feel that way,” she says of her adopted country. “But
I feel like the focus is more on people and families and enjoying life.”
Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 10/15

Share your travel stories
Have you been on a memorable, life-changing or record-breaking travel adventure? Share
your story below.
By submitting your story, including your name, and any other personal information (“Story”) you agree
that your Story may be used, published and distributed by CNN, its affiliates and licensees worldwide on
all media and platforms for editorial purposes without any limitation in time in accordance with CNN’s
terms of service. You also agree that we may use any personal contact information you provide to
contact you about your Story and that we will use such personal contact information in accordance with
our privacy policy located at cnn.com/privacy.What is your name and location? How can we get in touch? 
I agree
Subm itShare your story
Barkley says “everything is a little more minimalist,” in the Czech Republic, and this
“kind of spills over into a lot of diﬀerent areas of life.”
Advertisement2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 11/15

Parenting, too, feels diﬀerent. She notes a more hands-oﬀ approach, with greater
independence given to children and a higher level of trust — including children
traveling alone on public transport at young ages. As a teacher, she has also noticed
what she sees as greater respect for educators.
Although she loves living in Prague, Barkley still feels the pull of the United States,
getting stronger as time goes on.
“Being so far away from family was hard before, but it’s a diﬀerent level of hard
once you have kids,” she says. “And they’re growing up and changing so fast.”
After a recent Christmas visit, watching her children with their grandparents and
cousins stirred doubts. But she suspects they will fade with the return of warm
weather. “I’m never leaving Prague, because this place is amazing,” she imagines
herself saying.
Sometimes, she still wonders what would have happened had she boarded that
ﬂight to China.
“It’s crazy how much life can change,” she says. “And I don’t think I would have
lasted long in China, to be honest… Maybe I would have ended up here eventually.”Advertisement
Up next2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 12/15

Voices of the Venezuelan diaspora after Maduro’s ouster: How millions live
abroad as they wonder if it’s time to return
8 MIN READ
Mother of 3 who loved to sing and write poetry shot and killed by ICE in
Minneapolis
6 MIN READ
Got a move coming up? I asked experts for their top moving tips for a stress-
free day
8 MIN READ
Hermès veteran Véronique Nichanian’s final menswear collection is an ode
to longevity
4 MIN READ
Second lady Usha Vance announces she’s pregnant with her fourth child
2 MIN READ
Trump is crossing red lines. Why doesn’t Europe push him back?
7 MIN READ
Most popular
Alex Pretti broke rib in confrontation with federal agents a week before death, sources
say1
Twice within a week, Trump is forced to tone down big second-term power grabs 2
Forecast models are predicting a bomb cyclone off the East Coast this weekend. Here
are the scenarios3
Italians furious over deployment of ICE agents to bolster US security at Winter
Olympics4
1 person shot after exchanging gunfire with Border Patrol agents in Arizona, sheriff
says5
Doomsday Clock 2026: Scientists set new time 62026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 13/15

Sign in
World
US Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
ScienceTrump held 2-hour meeting with Noem as his administration grapples with
Minneapolis strategy7
Trump has a new problem in Minneapolis — a GOP-appointed judge 8
Woman who recorded Alex Pretti fatal shooting by ICE agents speaks out 2:17 9
Exclusive: Two officers fired their guns during Pretti encounter, Homeland Security
says in initial report10
Search CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 14/15

Climate
Weather
Winter Olympics 2026
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Features
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutNewsletters
Transcripts
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN TRAVEL2026/1/28 13:15 This American woman traveled to the Czech Republic eight years ago and decided to stay for good | CNN
https://edition.cnn.com/travel/american-woman-relocated-czech-republic-prague 15/15
