Trump wraps up Davos trip after key meetings on Ukraine,
Gaza and Greenland
Updated 8:07 PM EST, Thu January 22, 2026
What we covered here
• Ukraine talks: After meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelensky today in Davos, Switzerland, US President Donald Trump said
there’s still “a ways to go” on ending Russia’s war. Russian President
Vladimir Putin and US special envoy Steve Witkoﬀ also met in Moscow
today.
• Greenland deal:  Trump said negotiations regarding Greenland
currently give the US “total access” for defense. While Trump and
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte reached a verbal understanding
yesterday, no formalized document has been produced, sources say.
• Gaza plans: Trump earlier unveiled his “Board of Peace,” which is
tasked with rebuilding Gaza and resolving global conﬂicts. At a signingLIVE UPDATES
Trump unveils ‘Board
of Peace’ and meets
Zelensky in Davos
LIVE UPDATES
Trump’s immigration
crackdown expands
to Maine
RECAP
Former special
counsel Jack Smith
testifies before
House committee
LIVE UPDATES
En español: Trump
en Davos
President Trump tells CNN's Kaitlan Collins meeting with Zelensky was "good."
00:24
2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 1/21

ceremony, he called the enclave a “beautiful piece of property.”
82 PostsAll Catch Up Greenland Ukraine Davos
1 hr 15 min ago
EU leaders present calmly conﬁdent front after a
week of Trump-fueled upheaval
From CNN’s Joseph Ataman in Brussels
European Council President Antonio Costa, center, and European Commission President
Ursula von der Leyen, left, address a media conference at the end of the EU summit in
Brussels, on Friday. Omar Havana/AP
A quiet conﬁdence exuded from the presidents of the European Union’s
leadership on Friday morning as they addressed journalists following an
extraordinary meeting of the bloc’s leaders.
The gathering ran late into the night, with leaders both debrieﬁng the
diplomatic rollercoaster of the past week, as US President Donald Trump
threatened to annex Greenland, and considering how to ward oﬀ
unwanted pressures in the future.
EU Council President Antonio Costa said that “we believe that
relationships between nations and allies should be managed in a cordial
and respectful way,” while EU Commission President Ursula von der
Leyen praised the bloc’s “ﬁrm but non-escalatory” stance vis-à-vis the US,
in a veiled slight at the brash attacks of the Trump administration online
and in speeches this week.
The language reﬂected the gravity of events surrounding Greenland,
with Costa looking for the bloc to “engage constructively with the US” –
terms more commonly associated with unfriendly nations – while von
der Leyen said that the EU’s “work on independence is more important
than ever.”
Von der Leyen promised greater investment in Greenland, including a
surge in spending on security, potentially on assets like an EU icebreaker,
a key to access in the far North.2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 2/21

50 min ago
Putin's meeting with US negotiators ends, lasting
more than 3 hours
From CNN's Darya Tarasova, Nina Subkhanberdina, and Mitchell McCluskey
A meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and a US
delegation has ended, lasting more than three hours, the Kremlin
announced.
The talks began soon after the US negotiators, which include special
envoy Steve Witkoﬀ and US President Donald Trump’s son-in-law Jared
Kushner, arrived in Moscow late Thursday night with the hope of ending
the war in Ukraine.
The discussions continued into the early hours of Friday, past 3 a.m. in
Moscow.
In early December, a meeting between the two parties went on for
nearly ﬁve hours.
In a post on X after the meeting, Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian
sovereign wealth fund, called the discussion “important.”
2 hr 7 min ago
European leaders ﬁnish meeting on Greenland
From CNN's Joseph Ataman in Brussels
The European Council meeting on Greenland is now over, the French
presidency said.
The leaders of the countries in the European Union had convened in
Brussels for an emergency summit to address US President Donald
US special envoy Steve Witkoff’s motorcade leaves the Kremlin
00:13
ADVERTISEMENTPolitics Sign in2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 3/21

Trump’s ongoing statements about acquiring Greenland.
1 hr 42 min ago
Vance says Europe has "gone down this path of
civilization suicide”
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
Vice President JD Vance speaks at an industrial shipping facility on the administration's
economic agenda and impacts on the Midwest in Toledo, Ohio, on Thursday. Jim
Watson/Pool/Reuters
Vice President JD Vance sharply criticized European nations on
Thursday, saying they have moved toward what he called “civilization
suicide.”
“Europe has absolutely gone down this path, luckily, it’s not there yet, but
has gone down this path of civilization suicide,” Vance said during an
interview on Newsmax.
The vice president said the Trump administration’s criticism of Europe
stems from a desire to see it strengthen itself politically, economically
and militarily.
“We share a common civilizational heritage. You can’t drive your
economy oﬀ the cliﬀ. Why do we care about NATO? Because we want
Europe to be able to defend itself, if, God forbid, they were invaded. We
actually love Europe,” he said.
2 hr 5 min ago
Meanwhile, GOP Rep. Massie accuses Bondi of
purposefully stalling release of Epstein ﬁlesADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 4/21

From CNN’s Morgan Rimmer and Manu Raju
GOP Rep. Thomas Massie speaks during a press conference on the Epstein Files Transparency
Act on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC on November 18. Annabelle Gordon/Reuters
GOP Rep. Thomas Massie accused Attorney General Pam Bondi of
“breaking the law,” and said she is “absolutely” stalling the release of the
documents in the investigation of Jeﬀrey Epstein.
“It’s Pam Bondi’s job. She’s breaking the law. Pam Bondi is breaking
the law, and in ﬂagrant violation of it at this point,” he said, noting
that while there are millions of documents, “There’s about a few
dozen documents they desperately don’t want to release.”
“We don’t want millions of documents. We know exactly what we want,”
added Massie. “We know exactly what they’re hiding, and they’re doing
it on purpose.”
In November, Congress passed a law requiring the Justice Department to
release all Epstein documents by mid-December. However there are still
millions of documents that have not been released.
Asked by CNN’s Manu Raju what are the next steps if the DOJ doesn’t
comply, Massie said, “We may be doing something soon legislatively. I
don’t want to spill the punch.”
2 hr 37 min ago
Trump spoke to reporters on Air Force One while
ﬂying back from Davos. Here's what he said
From CNN's Nina Giraldo
US President Donald Trump discussed his views on a range of foreign
policy matters when he spoke to reporters on Air Force One on his way
back from Davos, Switzerland.2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 5/21

Here’s a quick recap of what he said:
• US convoy to Iran: Trump said a major convoy of US military assets
was steaming toward Iran “just in case,” but that he’d rather not use it to
strike the country following the regime’s crackdown on protesters. The
convoy is expected to arrive in the Middle East in the coming days.
• Trump and Machado call: He said he spoke with Venezuelan
opposition leader María Corina Machado today, though he continued to
voice support for the country’s acting president who took over after the
US captured Nicolás Maduro. Trump oﬀered positive assessments of both
leaders but stood by his assertion that Machado did not have enough
support to lead the country.
• Vague details on Greenland: Trump said the US could do “whatever
we want” when asked whether a future Greenland deal would allow the
US to control land in the Arctic territory. When asked whether the deal
would include new pockets of US sovereignty, Trump oﬀered a non-
speciﬁc response, saying the deal had “a lot of great things.”
• Running “Board of Peace”: He said he is open to remaining
chairman of his Board of Peace beyond his second term, even
potentially “for life,” saying the decision would ultimately be his to make.
CNN’s Kevin Liptak and Alejandra Jaramillo contributed to this report.
2 hr 40 min ago
House rejects resolution to rein in Trump’s war
powers in Venezuela
From CNN’s Veronica Stracqualursi and Riane Lumer
The US Capitol is seen on January 14. Rahmat Gul/APADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 6/21

The House on Thursday squashed a bipartisan resolution aiming to
restrain President Donald Trump’s White House from taking any further
military action in Venezuela without congressional approval.
The resolution, introduced by Democratic Reps. Jim McGovern and
Joaquin Castro and GOP Rep. Thomas Massie, failed, 215-215. Massie
and Republican Rep. Don Bacon joined with Democrats to vote for
the resolution.
The push followed the Trump administration’s “large scale strike”
against Venezuela and capture of its then-President Nicolás Maduro.
President Donald Trump has since said the US will play a central role in
running Venezuela and has not ruled out military involvement in the
nation — a point of contention on Capitol Hill.
3 hr 10 min ago
Trump says he's open to chairing Board of Peace for
life but unsure he wants that
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
US President Donald Trump speaks at the "Board of Peace" meeting during the World
Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos on Thursday. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
President Donald Trump said he is open to remaining chairman of his
Board of Peace beyond his second term, even potentially “for life,”
saying the decision would ultimately be his to make.
“I have the right to be, if I want,” Trump told reporters on Air Force One
while ﬂying back to Washington from Switzerland. “I mean, I’ll decide,”
he added, saying that he will see what happens.
Trump also indicated that others are encouraging him to stay on in the
role, before adding, “But I’m not sure I want that.”2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 7/21

According to the Board of Peace charter, the chairman may only be
replaced “following voluntary resignation or as a result of incapacity,”
and the document speciﬁcally names Trump as the inaugural chairman,
language that appears to entrench his role unless he chooses to step
aside.
Trump was also asked about the possibility of Russian President
Vladimir Putin using frozen Russian assets to ﬁnance his entry into the
Board of Peace.
“He’s going to join the Board of Peace, and he’s going to make a
contribution of a billion dollars, and by using his money – I mean, if he’s
using his money — that’s great,” Trump said.
3 hr 31 min ago
What to know as we track US negotiations with
Russia and Ukraine toward ending the war
From CNN's Aditi Sangal
Russia's President Vladimir Putin attends a meeting with US President Donald Trump's special
envoy Steve Witkoﬀ and son-in-law Jared Kushner at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, on
Thursday. Alexander Kazakov/Sputnik/Pool/Reuters
Russian President Vladimir Putin is meeting US negotiators at the
Kremlin tonight to discuss ending the war in Ukraine.
This comes after US President Donald Trump met Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelensky in Davos, Switzerland.
Here’s what you need to know:
Who is in the meeting in Moscow: The US deleg ation includes special
envoy Steve Witkoﬀ, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, and JoshADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 8/21

Gruenbaum, the Federal Acquisition Service Commissioner. Gruenbaum
previously participated in US-Russia consultations held in Miami,
Florida, Russian state media outlet TASS reported. Putin’s aide, Yuri
Ushakov, and Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian sovereign wealth
fund, are participating on the Russian side of the talks.
Trilateral meeting in UAE: A Ukrainian deleg ation is en route to the
United Arab Emirates where it will meet with representatives from
Russia and the US on Friday, Zelensky said.
Trump-Zelen sky meeting: Trump said he had a good meeting with
Zelensky but that there’s still “a ways to go” toward ending the war.
Zelensky also called the meeting positive and said he was “returning
home with agreements on a new package of critically needed air defense
for the protection of our people.”
Zelen sky scolds Europe: In a speech in Davos, Zelen sky criticized a
lack of progress on establishing a special tribunal for Russian aggression
at the International Criminal Court. “Europe loves to discuss the future,
but avoids taking action today, action that deﬁnes what kind of future we
will have,” he added. “What’s missing, time or political will?” He also
criticized the European Union of “looking lost” as the US focus shifts
elsewhere.
CNN’s Sophie Tanno, Adam Cancryn, Nina Subkhanberdina, Darya
Tarasova , Max Saltman and Max Foster contributed to this report.
3 hr 37 min ago
Zelenksy: Without action
now, there is no tomorrow
01:18
2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 9/21

Trump says US military ships are heading toward
Iran, but he hopes to avoid strikes
By Kevin Liptak
President Donald Trump said a major convoy of US military assets was
steaming toward Iran, but that he’d rather not use it to strike the country
amid heightened tensions following a wave of protests.
“We have a lot of ships going that direction, just in case. We have a big
ﬂotilla going in that direction, and we’ll see what happens. We have a big
force going toward Iran,” Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One.
“I’d rather not see anything happen, but we’re watching them very
closely,” he went on, citing Iran’s claims it had called oﬀ planned
executions of protesters last week.
A US aircraft carrier strike group, along with other military assets, is
expected to arrive in the Middle East in the coming days.
3 hr 36 min ago
Ahead of key Ukraine talks, Russia ﬂies bombers
over the Baltic Sea
From CNN Ivana Kottasová
Russia said its long-range bomber planes conducted a scheduled ﬁve-
hour patrol ﬂight over the Baltic Sea on Thursday — an operation likely
intended as a show of force as diplomatic eﬀorts to end the war in
Ukraine ratchet up again.
The Russian Ministry of Defense issued a statement about the ﬂight just
minutes after a meeting began at the Kremlin between Russian President
Vladimir Putin and US special envoy Steve Witkoﬀ.
It said the long-range bombers, accompanied by Russian ﬁghter jets,
were at certain stages of the route escorted by “ﬁghter jets from foreignADVERTISEMENT
Ahead of key Ukraine talks, Russia ﬂies bombers over the Baltic
Sea
00:40
2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 10/21

countries.”
Russia conducts similar ﬂights on regular basis, often prompting NATO
countries to scramble jets in the area.
3 hr 39 min ago
Trump says he spoke with Venezuelan opposition
leader Maria Corina Machado today
From CNN's Alejandra Jaramillo
Venezuelan opposition leader Maria Corina Machado speaks to reporters at the US Capitol
building on Tuesday. Samuel Corum/Getty Images
President Donald Trump said he spoke with Venezuelan opposition
leader Maria Corina Machado today, though he continued to voice
support for the country’s acting president, who took over after the US
captured Nicolas Maduro.
“I also spoke with Maria today, and you know, who I like a lot,” Trump
told reporters aboard Air Force One.
When asked if he would let acting Venezuelan president Delcy Rodriguez
remain in power, the president oﬀered a positive assessment of her, too.
“But she’s shown very strong leadership so far, I have to say, and we’re
moving in to the United States millions of barrels of oil as we speak,”
Trump said of Rodriguez. “Well, right now they’re very strong
leadership. I mean, they’re showing very strong leadership.”
Trump met with the opposition leader last week at the White House, and
she presented the president with her Nobel Peace Prize. But even then,
the White House said he stood by his assertion that she did not have
enough support to lead the country.
CNN has asked the White House for comment on the call.2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 11/21

3 hr 42 min ago
Trump says prospective Greenland deal would allow
US to do "whatever we want"
From CNN's Kevin Liptak
Houses are lit by low winter sunlight at dusk in Nuuk, Greenland, on Wednesday. Jonathan
Nackstrand/AFP/Getty Images
President Donald Trump continued oﬀering vague details of the
framework deal for Greenland as he was returning to Washington from
Europe, saying more information would be available in two weeks.
The now-familiar fortnight timeline came as the president was
questioned aboard Air Force One about whether the deal would include
US ownership of the Arctic island, which had been Trump’s bar.
Trump said the US could do “whatever we want” when asked whether
the deal would allow the US to control land in Greenland.
When he was asked whether it would include new pockets of US
sovereignty — an idea that had been ﬂoated in the wake of the
president’s announcement of a framework deal — Trump oﬀered a
nonspeciﬁc response.
“We have a lot of great things in the deal,” he said, adding it would also
be positive for Europe and that NATO would be heavily involved.
“We’ll have something in two weeks,” he said. “There’s a good spirit to
get something done.”
He said a deal would be “much more generous” than existing
agreements stipulating the US presence in Greenland.ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 12/21

4 hr 47 min ago
Putin-Witkoff talks begin in Moscow, Kremlin says
From CNN's Darya Tarasova and Nina Subkhanberdina
Russian President Vladimir Putin greeted US Special Envoy Steve Witkoﬀ and Jared Kushner
with a handshake upon their arrival to the Kremlin for talks on Thursday. (Kremlin via
Telegram)
A meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and US negotiators
has started, the Kremlin said Thursday.
Putin greeted the negotiators with a handshake as they arrived at the
Kremlin to discuss ending the war in Ukraine, according to footage
released by the Kremlin.
The US delegation includes special envoy Steve Witkoﬀ, Donald Trump’s
son-in-law Jared Kushner, and Josh Gruenbaum, the Federal Acquisition
Service Commissioner.
Gruenbaum previously participated in US-Russia consultations held in
Miami, Florida, Russian state media outlet TASS reported.
Putin’s aide, Yuri Ushakov, and Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian
sovereign wealth fund, are participating on the Russian side of the talks.
Earlier videos from state media showed Witkoﬀ’s plane landing at
Moscow’s Vnukovo airport and a motorcade transporting him to the
Kremlin.
5 hr 11 min ago
Ukraine's delegation is en route to the UAE to meet
with US and Russia, Zelensky says
From CNN's Nina Subkhanberdina
ADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 13/21

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky said that the Ukrainian
delegation which he said would meet with representatives from Russia
and the US was now en route to the United Arab Emirates where the
meeting is meant to take place starting Friday.
The White House and the Kremlin have yet to comment on what
Zelensky says is a trilateral meeting.
Traveling back from the World Economic Forum in Davos, where he met
with the US President Donald Trump, Zelensky said he was “returning
home with agreements on a new package of critically needed air defense
for the protection of our people.”
5 hr 14 min ago
UK prime minister is “concerned” about Putin's
invite to Board of Peace
From CNN's Hira Humayun
Britain's Prime Minister Keir Starmer at 10 Downing Street in London, on Tuesday. Alberto
Pezzali/AP
UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer has expressed apprehension about
Russian President Vladimir Putin being invited to join US President
Donald Trump’s Board of Peace, given Moscow’s ongoing war in Ukraine.
“I obviously have concerns about Putin being on the Board of Peace;
he is waging war on a European country,” Starmer said in an
interview with Channel 4 News that aired on Thursday.
Trump unveiled his controversial Board of Peace at Davos on Thursday.
Putin, who has been invited to join the board, has not yet committed but
has ﬂoated using Russian assets frozen in the US to pay the $1 billion fee
for a permanent seat. The UK has not signed up.2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 14/21

“They’re raining down bombs on Ukraine,” Starmer said. “We mustn’t let
the events of the last week or so deﬂect from the focus.”
Earlier in the day British Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper said the UK
will not sign the Board of Peace treaty due to concerns about Russian
involvement.
“We need to work with the Americans, with our allies, and others to
defend and support Ukraine in a conﬂict which is not of their making,”
Starmer said. His remarks come as Trump said he’d had a good meeting
with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky but that there was
still “a ways to go” toward ending its war with Russia.
Starmer’s comments about Russia come as he and NATO Secretary
General Mark Rutte discussed Arctic security in a call on Thursday,
according to a Downing Street spokesperson.
Rutte told Sky News earlier that he had discussed how to “save the
Arctic from the Russians and the Chinese” in a meeting with Trump on
Wednesday.
CNN’s Max Saltman and Max Foster contributed reporting.
5 hr 26 min ago
Carney says Canada “doesn't live because of the
United States” after a week of Trump's threats and
insults
From CNN's Max Saltman and Paula Newton
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney speaks during a news conference in Quebec, Canada
on Thursday. Mathieu Belanger/ReutersADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 15/21

Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney issued a rebuttal to recent
threats and insults from US President Donald Trump on Thursday, saying
in a speech that his country “doesn’t live because of the United States.”
“Canada and the United States have built a remarkable partnership
in the economy and security and in rich cultural exchange,” Carney
said in a speech at the Citadelle in Quebec City. “But Canada doesn’t
live because of the United States. Canada thrives because we are
Canadian.”
“We are masters in our own home,” Carney then said in French, quoting
a Quebecois political slogan he often deploys while speaking publicly.
“This is our country, this is our future, the choice is ours.”
The location of Carney’s speech on Thursday was not without symbolism.
The Citadelle was built in 1820 to repel US forces, less than a decade
after a failed American invasion of Canada.
Trump escalated his rhetoric against Canada this week, on Tuesday
posting an image of North America with Canada, Greenland and
Venezuela eclipsed by the colors of the American ﬂag. The next day, the
president claimed in a speech in Davos, Switzerland, that Canada was
ungrateful for the many “freebies” it receives from the United States.
Carney, meanwhile, warned world leaders in Davos of a “global
rupture,” saying that “middle powers must act together because if we’re
not at the table, we’re on the menu.”
5 hr 44 min ago
US ownership of Greenland “didn’t come up” in
Trump meeting, and there's no "U-turn," NATO chief
says
From CNN's Max Saltman2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 16/21

President Donald Trump speaks with NATO's Secretary General Mark Rutte during a bilateral
meeting on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos on Wednesday. Mandel
Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte said Thursday that US ownership of
Greenland “didn’t come up” during his meeting with Donald Trump in
Davos – and he does not see the US president’s new position as a “U-
turn.”
“We didn’t discuss it,” Rutte said in an interview with Sky News on
Thursday. “Didn’t come up last night.”
“What I can say is that we discussed on what is his idea, his vision,” Rutte
said, claiming that he and Trump focused on how NATO can “save the
Arctic from the Russians and the Chinese.”
After his meeting with Rutte on Wednesday, Trump declared on Truth
Social that he would refrain from an earlier threat to tariﬀ European
countries for standing in the way of a US takeover of Greenland.
The NATO chief also told Sky News that he does not see the president’s
new position as a “U-turn.”
“I don’t think there’s a U-turn,” Rutte said, explaining that Trump
“started to focus European and Canadian allies on the Arctic, Greenland,
but also the wider Arctic” during his ﬁrst term.
“And then when he came back into oﬃce, he again said, ‘hey, it’s still not
solved to a suﬃcient level,’” Rutte added. “And he is right.”
Asked by Sky whether the consternation caused by Trump’s Greenland
comments amounted to a distraction for NATO allies, Rutte disagreed,
even crediting Trump with “saving NATO.”
“I think he was right to get that debate going on,” Rutte said. “How can
we protect the Arctic? How can we make sure that the Arctic is safe? And
I would argue that after saving NATO, he is now the one who has led the
charge to make sure that collectively, we will save the Arctic region.”
5 hr 23 min ago
Witkoff lands in Moscow, Russian state media
reports
From CNN's Darya TarasovaADVERTISEMENT2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 17/21

A plane carrying US Special Envoy Steve Witkoﬀ landed at Moscow's Vnukovo International
Airport on Thursday. (TASS via Telegram)
A plane carrying US Special Envoy Steve Witkoﬀ has landed in Moscow, a
correspondent for Russian state media TASS reported on Thursday.
Witkoﬀ and Jared Kushner, Donald Trump’s son-in-law, are in the
Russian capital to hold negotiations with President Vladimir Putin on
ending the war in Ukraine.
6 hr 20 min ago
Spanish foreign minister echoes Zelensky’s call for
European army in interview with CNN
From CNN's Moriah Thomas and Max Saltman
Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares speaks to the media in Brussels, Belgium in
December. Omar Havana/Reuters
Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares said Thursday that Europe
ought to have its own army, in comments echoing Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelensky’s speech at Davos, Switzerland.
“I think it’s time that Europe takes its own fate and its sovereignty in its
own hands,” Albares told CNN’s Richard Quest on the sidelines of the
2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 18/21

Sign in
US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
CNN Underscored
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
ScienceWorld Economic Forum in Davos.
“And that means really removing all of the obstacles of the single
market,” Albares said, “making sure that we have the right trade
partners in this moment in which people start to talk about tariﬀs, and
that we have also deterrence in our hands, our own security, integrating
our industries of defense and moving towards a European army.”
In his speech earlier Thursday, Zelensky suggested that Europe is too
reliant on the US for its security, saying that “Europe needs united armed
forces, forces that can truly defend Europe today.”
When CNN asked Albares if his suggestions for defense would include
additional aid to Ukraine, Albares replied that Spain is “doing as much as
we can,” noting that half of the country’s aid is going to Ukraine.
Albares added that Spain will continue to supply aid until Ukraine has a
“just and lasting peace,” saying Ukraine’s situation directly correlates to
Europe’s future and democracy there.
ADVERTISEMENT
Search CNN...
Listen
Watch2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 19/21

Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
Politics
DOWNLOAD THE CNN APP
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutSubscribeNewslettersTranscriptsHelp Center
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN POLITICS2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 20/21

2026/1/23 09:52 Trump meets with Zelensky after unveiling ‘Board of Peace’ in Davos | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-administration-news-01-22-26 21/21
