POLITICS8 MIN READ
2 HR AGO
Analysis by
 Stephen CollinsonCan Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs
the war in Ukraine?2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 1/14

People look at a damaged apartment building after a Russian attack in Kyiv, Ukraine, on ...
Bullish assessments by US oﬃcials are driving President Donald Trump’s
latest eﬀort to end the war in Ukraine toward a familiar and inevitable acid
test.
Will Russia agree to any deal that Ukraine and its European partners
modify to secure their sovereignty and security?
Trump is pining for an agreement — both because he lives for deals and
because he’s trying to bill himself as a global peacemaker as he builds a
legacy. He has shown he’s not too worried about whether any ﬁnal pact ends
up rewarding the aggressor, Russia, or whether it will leave NATO’s
European states fearing further expansionism by the Kremlin.
2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 2/14

After a day of hopeful rhetoric from Washington, Trump seemed to conﬁrm
the fears of his critics when he appeared to signal Russia would not be
required to give much ground in talks to end a war it started with an illegal
invasion.
“Well, they’re making concessions. Their big concession is they stop ﬁghting
and they don’t take any more land again,” Trump told reporters Tuesday
evening.
Since he’s again forcing the situation, with a draft plan that initially read
like Russia’s work, Ukraine has no choice but to go along. But Kyiv is trying
to nix conditions that would threaten its existence and capacity to defend
itself after the war.
European nations are unwilling to alienate Trump, because they depend on
him to defend them and to sell them arms for Ukraine. So they had little
choice but to follow their usual pattern — praising the president while
working to sand down pro-Russia ideas that imperil their own safety. Their
suspicions of Moscow are heightened because they blame Russian hybrid
warfare for a series of drone intrusions, cyber attacks, sabotage, and tense
air and naval encounters.Advertisement
Advertisement2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 3/14

But as anticipation builds in Washington amid signs Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelensky will soon visit Trump to discuss an agreement,
perennial roadblocks that thwarted past eﬀorts are reemerging.
Can Trump sell a deal that Zelensky can live with to President Vladimir
Putin, given Russia’s demands for Ukraine to hand over strategic territory
Moscow doesn’t control? Does the Kremlin indeed have any interest in
negotiating on a ceaseﬁre or longer-term peace agreement that would limit
its eﬀorts to strangle an independent Ukraine? Would any Russian shift in
position be genuine, or would it simply be a way to prolong negotiations
while Moscow’s forces make front-line advances? This last question is why
European states are demanding a ceaseﬁre before a full peace process — a
condition that Russian has resisted in previous drives to end the war.
Ultimately, Trump’s newest peace initiative will come down to whether Putin
wants to make peace. There has been no sign since he invaded Ukraine more
than three years ago that he does. If that doesn’t change, another question
will become even more urgent: How long is Trump willing to tolerate this
cycle of futility before he walks away entirely — which would represent a
victory for Moscow?Politics Sign in2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 4/14

Russian President Vladimir Putin is seen at the Kremlin in Moscow on November 12.
(Contributor/Getty Images)
Latest developments are positive but no deﬁnitive
The White House expressed great optimism on Tuesday that a deal was
within reach after several days of talks in Europe and the Gulf involving
Secretary of State Marco Rubio, US Army Secretary Daniel Driscoll and
other top oﬃcials.
► Trump on Tuesday celebrated “tremendous progress” in ﬁne-tuning his
initial 28-point peace plan, which was widely condemned as a Russian wish
list. He said he’d directed his envoy Steve Witkoﬀ to go to Moscow to meet
Putin. The real-estate specialist turned envoy may get a warm welcome,
judging by the transcript of a call he had with a top Putin adviser in October,
in which he seemed to be coaching the Russians to ﬂatter Trump to win
approval of the Gaza-style peace plan. In the transcript published by
2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 5/14

Bloomberg News, he seems as much an adviser to the Russian government
as to the White House.
But White House communications director Steven Cheung said in a
statement that “this story proves one thing: Special Envoy Witkoﬀ talks to
oﬃcials in both Russia and Ukraine nearly every day to achieve peace,
which is exactly what President Trump appointed him to do.”
► Zelensky suggested that European leaders — who’ve acted as a kind of
diplomatic bodyguard for him in the past — might be helpful in any meeting
with Trump in the US.
► British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said Ukraine could accept much of
the US proposal in its current form. But a Ukrainian source with direct
knowledge of the talks told CNN’s Matthew Chance that some of the ﬁercest
disputes remain, including on whether Ukraine would give up territory
Russia has not conquered; over Moscow’s limit on the size of its postwar
military; and on Ukraine renouncing ambitions to ever become a member of
NATO. Starmer hinted as much, saying: “Ukraine is holding the line
fearlessly. And it’s the line of their sovereignty and their defense.”
► French President Emmanuel Macron, meanwhile, said there would be a
US component to proposed European security guarantees for Ukraine after a
peace agreement. But Russia has always rejected such proposals, so it’s not
clear whether the West is simply negotiating with itself.Advertisement2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 6/14

Atmospherics in Washington may be outpacing
progress
Whether there’s progress or only the illusion of it may become clearer over
the Thanksgiving holiday.
This White House is prone to trumpet incremental progress as major
triumphs for Trump. At one point on Tuesday, a US oﬃcial said Ukraine had
agreed to a deal, only for Kyiv to temper expectations. So it’s best not to
judge the prospects for the talks based on the buoyancy of a president who
once promised to end the war in 24 hours.
On the other hand, Washington is deploying a time-honored tactic vital to all
peace negotiations — conjuring an impression of momentum even if it
doesn’t exist to keep hopes alive and to increase the diplomatic costs to
either party to walking away from the table.Advertisement2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 7/14

President Donald Trump delivers remarks at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in
Washington, DC, on November 19. (Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images)
Trump sent shockwaves across the Atlantic with his initial 28-point proposal.
It included Russia’s demands that Ukraine give up land it still holds in
eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk and a provision that its enemy will
never join NATO. His timing seemed like cynical opportunism at a moment
of weakness for Zelensky, who is embroiled in a corruption scandal, and as
Russian troops make battleﬁeld gains, to impose an unjust end to the war on
Ukraine.
But if Trump somehow achieves a breakthrough, it would not be the ﬁrst
time that he’s cracked open negotiations by laying down a maximalist
position and threatening to walk. As the leader of the West and a friend of
Putin, the US president may be the only force that could shift political
calculations.
2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 8/14

US oﬃcials appear to be trying to implement a similar template to the one
that yielded a ceaseﬁre in Gaza between Israel and Hamas, which also
started with a long list of proposals that were later reﬁned. But the two
scenarios are not the same. Trump was able and willing to apply pressure on
Israel to sign up to his plan. The Arab states did the same for Hamas. But
Trump seems to lack the leverage or desire to similarly pressure Russia,
despite recently imposed US secondary sanctions on Moscow’s oil exports,
which keep its war machine running.
Still, the Israel-Hamas ceaseﬁre has held, as fragile as it is, and US oﬃcials —
including some of those involved in the Ukraine push — have been working
diligently to try to initiate a true peace process. Few thought Witkoﬀ and
other senior administration oﬃcials could pull that oﬀ, either.
It has long been accepted in Europe, the United States and even Kyiv that
Ukraine will not be able to regain at the negotiating table most of the
territory it has lost in the war. But Russian demands for all of Luhansk and
Donetsk could be a dealbreaker for Kyiv, since this could position Russian to
stage another attack in the future. US proposals seen by CNN suggest the
area of Luhansk and Donetsk that is most contested could become a
demilitarized zone. But this could still strip Ukraine of its best means of
defense against an attack from the east.
Even amid talk of real progress in Europe, deep skepticism remains in
Ukraine after days of fresh Russian air attacks.Advertisement2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 9/14

“Trust me, nobody wants peace more than all of us,” Ukrainian member of
parliament Inna Sovsun told Zain Asher on CNN International. But she
added, “Frankly speaking, there is not much pressure being put onto Russia.
The only concessions that have been debated is, ‘What concessions is
Ukraine going to make?’ What are the concessions that Russia is going to
make?”
Any ceaseﬁre that involves a freezing of the battleground on the current
front lines, plus security guarantees — including a European stabilization
force and a US support role — might have a chance. Yet Russia has given no
sign it has dropped objections to such conditions. And no one on the
European side of the Atlantic trusts Putin.
And some gaps might be unbridgeable.
Zelensky said Tuesday “the principles” of the US document can be further
developed into deeper agreements. But the more a proposal is reﬁned to
please Zelensky and Europe, the further it moves from Moscow’s maximalist
position.Advertisement
Advertisement2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 10/14

Democratic Sen. Chris Van Hollen, who sits on the Foreign Relations
Committee, explained the stakes on “CNN News Central” on Tuesday. “It was
a Russian-tilted plan. And so, of course, the Ukrainians and our European
allies resisted it. And now … (there were) these discussions in Geneva where
apparently the Ukrainians and the Americans are now kind of on the same
page. It’s gone from 28 points to 19 points. But if you’re Russia, you’re going,
‘Hey, I’ll take that original Trump plan, right?’”
That is the critical sticking point. And there’s no sign it’s changed.
Unless Putin is facing political and economic strains not evident from the
outside, Russia may be in a “heads, I win; tails, you lose” situation.
If it can wrest diplomacy back toward its goals, possibly with Trump’s help,
it might contemplate ending the war — for now — on its terms. If its
intransigence breaks this latest initiative, it can keep ﬁghting — which it
may want to do anyway. Any subsequent recriminations between the US and
Europe will further one of its overarching goals: pulling Trump further away
from the Western alliance.
Something is needed to change the vicious cycle.
Up next
Trump’s 28-point peace proposal for Ukraine would require land concessions
and military reduction
9 MIN READ
US trumpets Ukraine talks progress – but source reveals significant
obstacles
3 MIN READ
Trump is giving Russia almost everything it wants with his Ukraine peace
plan
2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 11/14

6 MIN READ
Ukraine’s allies voice concern over US peace plan ahead of talks Sunday
4 MIN READ
Putin is playing Trump for time. The 28-point peace plan plays into his hands
4 MIN READ
Zelensky warns of ‘difficult moment in history’ after Trump gives Ukraine
days to accept his plan to end war
5 MIN READ
Most popular
FBI seeking to schedule interviews with Democratic lawmakers in controversial video 1
Pentagon move against war hero Kelly shows Trump’s quest for vengeance is endless 2
Missing Virginia football coach is wanted on child pornography and other charges,
police say3
Facing a lack of Russian recruits, Moscow is accused of using deception and bribery
to sign up foreigners to fight in Ukraine4
The dirty secret of America’s holiday shopping season 5
Pentagon says it might recall Sen. Mark Kelly to military service for court martial over
‘illegal orders’ video6
Mamdani meets America’s unruly uncle: South Asians hail the special social skill that
tamed Trump7
Death of Florida teenager on Carnival cruise ship ruled a homicide 8
Prosecutors will retry man in death of Etan Patz, whose 1979 disappearance
spotlighted missing kids92025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 12/14

Sign in
World
US Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
FeaturesUS trumpets Ukraine talks progress – but source reveals significant obstacles 10
Search CNN...
Live TV
Listen
Watch2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 13/14

Watch
Listen
Games
About CNN
Politics
Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyManage CookiesAd ChoicesAccessibility & CCAboutNewsletters
Transcripts
© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.FOLLOW CNN POLITICS2025/11/26 16:27 Ukraine-Russia peace talks: Can Trump break the vicious cycle that prolongs the war? | CNN Politics
https://edition.cnn.com/2025/11/26/politics/trump-ukraine-russia-peace-talks-analysis 14/14
